                                               CLAIMS

    1. A service chain detection method, wherein the method comprises:

    obtaining, by a service forwarding entity, SFE, a first fault tracing detection request packet, and

    determining, by the SFE, to communicate With a service function, SF, node, wherein the first fault

    tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a

    path of a service chain;

    obtaining, by the SFE, an ID of the SF node; and

    sending, by the SFE, a first fault tracing detection response packet to a device for initiating fault

    detection, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID and the ID

10 of the SF node.

    2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining, by an SFE, to communicate With

    21 SF node, comprises:

    obtaining, by the SFE, a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence

    comprises the path ID and an address of the SF node;

15  sending, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to

    the address of the SF node; and

    receiving, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein

    the second fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet

20 further comprises a first parameter, the first parameter is used to identify the SF node or is used to

    identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the serVice chain; and the determining, by an SFE,

    to communicate With 21 SF node comprises:

    obtaining, by the SFE, a correspondence based on the path ID and the first parameter, wherein

    the correspondence comprises the path ID, the first parameter and an address of the SF node;

25  sending, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to

    the address of the SF node; and

    receiving, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein

    the second fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet

3O further comprises at least one of the first parameter and an ID of the SFE.

    5. The method according to any one of claims 1 t0 3, wherein after the obtaining, by the SFE,
    the first fault tracing detection request packet, the method further comprises:

    sending, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection response packet to the device for initiating

    fault detection, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises an ID of the

    SFE and the path ID.

    6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the first fault tracing detection

    request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an ID of the previous--hop

    SF node of the SF node on the serVice chain; and the first fault tracing detection response packet

    further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the

    node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of

10 all the SF nodes on the service chain.

    7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the first fault tracing detection

    request packet further comprises an ID of an SF node used as an end point; and

    after the sending, by the SFE, a first fault tracing detection response packet to the device for

    initiating fault detection, the method further comprises:

15  ending, by the SFE, detection on the serVice chain when the ID of the SF node is the same as the

    ID of the SF node used as the end point.

    8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the obtaining, by an SFE, a first

    fault tracing detection request packet comprises:

    receiving, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet from the device for

20 initiating fault detection; or

    receiving, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet from a previous--hop SFE

    of the SFE on the service chain; or

    generating, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet.

    9. A service chain detection method, wherein the method comprises:

25  sending, by a device for initiating fault detection, a first fault tracing detection request packet to

    a service forwarding entity, SFE, wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a

    path identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain;

    receiving, by the device for initiating fault detection, a first fault tracing detection response

    packet from the SFE, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID

30 and an ID of a service function, SF, node; and

    determining, by the device for initiating fault detection, that forwarding between the SFE and

    the SF node is normal.

    10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the sending, by a device for initiating fault

    detection, a first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE comprises:
    obtaining, by the device for initiating fault detection, a correspondence based on the path ID,

    wherein the correspondence comprises the path ID and an address of the SFE; and

    sending, by the device for initiating fault detection, the first fault tracing detection request

    packet to the SFE according to the address of the SFE.

    11. The method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the first fault tracing detection request

    packet further comprises a first parameter, and the first parameter is used to identify the SF node or is

    used to identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain.

    12. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the first fault tracing detection

    request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an ID of the previous--hop

10 SF node of the SF node on the serVice chain; and the first fault tracing detection response packet

    further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the

    node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of

    all the SF nodes on the service chain.

    13. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein after the sending, by the device

15 for initiating fault detection, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE, the method
       further comprises:

    receiving, by the device for initiating fault detection, a second fault tracing detection response

    packet from the SFE, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path

    ID and an ID of the SFE; and

20  determining, by the device for initiating fault detection, that forwarding between the SFE and

    the device for initiating fault detection is normal.

    14. A service forwarding apparatus, wherein the serVice forwarding apparatus comprises:

    a first communications unit, configured to: obtain a first fault tracing detection request packet,

    and then determine to communicate With a service function, SF, node, wherein the first fault tracing

25 detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a path of a

    service chain;

    a first obtaining unit, configured to obtain an ID of the SF node; and

    a first sending unit, configured to send a first fault tracing detection response packet to the

    device for initiating fault detection, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet

3O comprises the path ID and the ID of the SF node.

    15. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the first communications

    unit is specifically configured to:

    obtain a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence comprises the path

    ID and an address of the SF node;
        send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to the address of

    the SF node comprised in the correspondence; and

        receive a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein the second

    fau1ttracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

        16. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the first fault tracing

    detection request packet further comprises a first parameter, the first parameter is used to identify the

    SF node or is used to identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the

    first communications unit is specifically configured to:

        obtain a correspondence based on the path ID and the first parameter, wherein the

10 correspondence comprises the path ID, the first parameter and an address of the SF node;

        send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to the address of

    the SF node comprised in the correspondence; and

        receive a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein the second

    fau1ttracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

15      17. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the first fault tracing

    detection response packet further comprises at least one of the first parameter and an ID of the

    service forwarding apparatus.

        18. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the first

    sending unit is further configured to send a second fault tracing detection response packet to the

20 device for initiating fault detection, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet

    comprises the path ID and an ID of the service forwarding apparatus.

        19. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the first

    fault tracing detection request packet further comprises a node list, and the node 1ist comprises an ID

    of the previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the serVice chain; and the first fault tracing detection

25 response packet further comprises an updated node list, the updated node 1ist comprises the ID of the

    SF node and the node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same

    as an order of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

        20. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein the first

    fault tracing detection request packet further comprises an ID of an SF node used as an end point;

3O and

        the serVice forwarding apparatus further comprises:

        a control unit, configured to: after the first sending unit sends the first fault tracing detection

    response packet to the device for initiating fault detection, determine that the ID of the SF node is the

    same as the ID of the SF node used as the end point, and end detection on the service chain.
    21. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 20, wherein

    the first communications unit is specifically configured to receive the first fault tracing detection

    request packet from the device for initiating fault detection; or

    the first communications unit is specifically configured to receive the first fault tracing detection

    request packet from a previous--hop SFE 0f the service forwarding apparatus 0n the service chain; or

    the first communications unit is specifically configured to generate the first fault tracing

    detection request packet.

    22. A device for initiating fault detection, wherein the device for initiating fault detection

    comprises:

10  a sending unit, configured to send a first fault tracing detection request packet to a service

    forwarding entity, SFE, wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path

    identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain;

    a first receiving unit, configured to receive a first fault tracing detection response packet from

    the SFE, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID and an ID of

15 a service function, SF, node; and
              a first determining unit, configured to determine that forwarding between the SFE and the SF

    node is normal.

    23. The device for initiating fault detection according to claim 22, wherein the sending unit is

    specifically configured to:

20  obtain a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence comprises the path

    ID and an address of the SFE; and

    send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE according to the address of the

    SFE comprised in the correspondence.

    24. The device for initiating fault detection according to claim 22 or 23, wherein the first fault

25 tracing detection request packet further comprises a first parameter, and the first parameter is used to
       identify the SF node or is used to identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service

    chain.

    25. The device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein the

    first fault tracing detection request packet further comprises a node list, wherein the node list

3O comprises an ID of the previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and

    the first fault tracing detection response packet further comprises an updated node list, the

    updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the node list, and an order of all SF nodes

    comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

    26. The device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein the
device for initiating fault detection further comprises:
      a second receiving unit, configured to receive a second fault tracing detection response packet

from the SFE, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID and
an ID of the SFE; and

      the first determining unit is further configured to determine that forwarding between the SFE
and the fault detection is normal.

      27. A system, comprising a service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to
21, and a device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 26.
