                                                            BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 M'L'mchen Germany  Ihr Zeichen/your ref.                                                  Dr. Steffen Schmidt

Eu ropaISCheS Patentamt                                     19 160 813.2                                                           Pettenkoferstrafie 22

80298 Miinchen                                              Ihre Nachn'cht /your letter                                            80336 Mfinchen
                                                                                                                                   Germany
                                                            Unser Zeichen / our ref.
                                                                                                                                   T +49-89 559680
                                                            H12303WOEP-A                                                           F +49-89-559685090

                                                                                                                         Mfinchen  s.schmidt@boehmert.de
                                                                                                                                   www.boehmert.de
                                                            May 4, 2020
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ing. Kan Boehmerl PA(189971973)
European Patent Application 191608132                                                                                              DipI.-|ng. Albert Boehmerl PAUBOZrIBBE)
SERVICE CHAIN FAULT DETECTION METHOD AND                                                                                           Wilhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA, Bremen
APPARATUS                                                                                                                          Dr.-|ng. Walter Hoormann PA`, Bremen
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.                                                                                                      Prol. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA', Manchen, Shanghal
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PA`, Manchen
On the communication pursuant to R. 69 EPC and the publication of                                                                  Woll-Dieter Kuntze RA, Bremen
the European Search Report, the examination fee and designation                                                                    Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA, Bremen
fee are paid by debit order.                                                                                                       DipI.-|ng. Eva Liesegang PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Stelan Schohe PA', Manchen
It is requested to start with the examination on the basis of new                                                                  Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PA', Bleleteld
claims 1 to 27 replacing all claims previously on file, new description                                                            Dr. Marlin Wirlz RA, Dasseldon, Berlm
pages 1, 2, 2a and 71 replacing description pages 1, 2 and 71 to 85 on                                                             Dr. CarI-Richard Haarmann RA, Manchen
file, and the remaining documents as currently on file.                                                                            DipI.-Phys. Christian W. Appelt PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr.-|ng. Uwe Manasse PA', Bremen
I. AMENDMENTS                                                                                                                      DipI.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Binner PA`, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA, Manchen, Pans
Newly filed claim specifies that "the service chain comprises a                                                                    DipI.-Biol. Dr. Jan B. KrauB PA', Manchen
plurality of service function nodes, and a packet passes through                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA`, Manchen
according to an order of the plurality of service function nodes", as                                                              DipI.-Chem. Dr. KarI-Heinz B. Menen PA`,Frank1urI
disclosed on p. 21, l. 21 to 23 0f the translated original description.                                                            DipI.-Ing. Nils T. F. Schmid PA', Bea, Manchen, Pans
Moreover, the method is specified as fault detection method, as                                                                    Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA, Lm en dram, Manchen
disclosed egg. on page 27,1. 24 0f the description.                                                                                Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA, BerIm,Ahcame
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Volker Scholz PA`, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Marlin Schaeler RA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Harlig PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. SIefien Schmidt PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Lucke PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Ule Kilger PA', Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Mane Nemwig, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Rudoll Béckenholt, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Peter GroB, LL.M. RA, MunchenAlmame
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|ng. Felix Hermann PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Bjérn Bahlmann RA, Manchen, Frankmrl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Kreischmann PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Michael Rfiberg, LL.M. RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA`, Dflsseldon
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|nlorm. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biol. Dr. David Kunenkeuler PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Marlin Erbacher PA`, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA`,Frank1url,M£Jnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebastian Engels RA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA, Manchen

                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PA`,Frank1url,M£Jnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Katrin Seibt RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Xia Plafienzeller PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Catharina G612 RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|nlorm. Fritz Jetzek PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Holmann PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Ralph-Peter Andersen PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Philipp Johannes Henrichs RA, Dflssekmrl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Julia Mfiller PA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Florian Malescha, M.Sc. PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyfirek PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Tech. Math. Felix Dietrich PA`, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Lars Eggersdorler RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Yannick Schfin, M.Sc. Inlorm. PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Ing. Simon Cornet PA, Dassekmn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|ng. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Corinna Jakob RA, Manchen

                                                                                                                                   PA Palemanwall/Palem Allamey `Eumpean Patent Allamey
                                                                                                                                   RA Rechlsanwall/Allomey at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   " Ageme de la Pmpledad lnduslnal (Spamen / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Verlrelung var dem EUlPO 7 Marken um Deslgns
                                                                                                                                   Represenlalmn al EUlPO 7 Trade marks and Deslgns

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschaft mbB - Patentanwilte Rechtsanwilte - AG Bremen-PR 358 HB
Mfinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Dfisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Pan's - Shanghai

Information about data protection
www.boehmert.com/data-protection
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

Analogous amendments are introduced into independent claims 9, 14 and 22.

Reference signs are introduced into all claims where appropriate.

Further, prior art document D1, cited in the European search report, is now duly
acknowledged on new description p. 2, and repeated claim language is deleted from
pages 71 to 85.

II. OBJECTIONS UNDER ART. 84 EPC

In response to the request for two-paIt form, it is submitted that the subject matter of
new claims 1 and 9 relates to a method whose method steps are interrelated with each
other, while the inventive step concerns changes in several of these interrelated method
steps. Further, the subject matter of claim 14 and 22 relates to a complex apparatus of
functionally inter-related parts, while the inventive step concerns changes in several of
these parts of the apparatus. Therefore, the use of the two-paIt form is considered to be
inappropriate, since it would give a distorted picture of the claimed invention and
would lead to an artificial lack of clarity of the respective claim. Hence, it is requested to
allow the one-paIt form in the present case.

The Search Division take the View that the expression "service chain" used in
independent claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 would be vague and fail to define any technical
features. However, independent claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 are herewith amended to specify
that "the service chain comprises a plurality of service function nodes, and a packet
passes through according to an order of the plurality of service function nodes" thereby
clarifying the expression "service chain". It is now clear that a service chain is to be
understood as a chain comprising a plurality of service function nodes that a packet
passes through.

The Search Division also expressed doubts about the clarity of the use of the term
"fault" in the expressions "service chain fault detection", "fault tracing detection" and
"initiating fault detection". In words of the Search Division, it would allegedly be
unclear which faults are exactly to be detected or traced and how such a service chain
fault detection is actually achieved only by obtaining IDs and addresses.

                                                                                                                                                                                  2/7
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

The term "fault" of claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 is related to a difference between an order of
the service function nodes that a service packet passes through the service chain and a
planned processing order of the service function nodes. Thus, as described on p. 20, 1.
27 to page 21, 1. 1 0f the present description with reference to Fig. 1, the invention aims
at implementing an improvement in conventional detection methods that are not able
to detect an abnormality, i.e. fault, causing a service packet to be transmitted over a set
of service function nodes in an order different from that originally foreseen. As
explained with respect to Fig. 1, if a service processing order planned on a service chain
specifies that a packet forwarded 0n the service chain should first pass the service
function node 121 and then pass the service function node 122, and an abnormality
causes the service packet to instead pass service function node 122 first and then
service function node 121, a conventional detection device is not able to detect such a
fault related to the abnormal order of the service function nodes passed by the service
packet.

The invention proposes a solution to solve this problem based on the use of fault
tracing detection request packets, the fault tracing detection request packets detect
service function entities and service function nodes connected within a service chain,
and the solution allows determining the locations of the service function nodes
according to an order of sending fault tracing detection request packets comprising
identifiers 0f the paths and service function nodes (cf. p. 21, 1. 1 t0 6 and p. 27, 1. 24 to p.
28, 1. 3 0f the present description). Specifically, the SFE of claim 1 obtains an ID of the
SF node after determining the SFE communicates with the SF node, and the SFE sends
the ID of the SF node by sending a first fault tracing detection response packet (1032)
to the device for initiating fault detection, and the first fault tracing detection response
packet (1032) includes the ID of the SF node. According to the ID of the SF node, the
device for initiating fault detection can obtain the result of fault detection.

The applicant submits that the wordings of newly filed claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 now
define the terms that had been obj ected to in a clear manner and in terms of technical
features. It is hence believed that newly filed claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 now fulfils the
requirements of Art. 84 EPC.

                                                                                                                                                                                  3/7
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

The Search Division also expressed doubts about the clarity of the definition of
"determining, by the device for initiating fault detection, that forwarding between the
SFE and the SF node is normal".

The invention proposes a solution to solve this problem based on the use of fault
tracing detection request packets, the fault tracing detection request packets detect
service function entities and service function nodes connected within a service chain,
and the solution allows determining the locations of the service function nodes
according to an order of sending fault tracing detection request packets comprising
identifiers of the paths and service function nodes (cf. p. 21, l. 1 to 6 and p. 27, l. 24 to p.
28, l. 1 of the present description). Specifically, paragraph [0230] to paragraph [0232],
the SFE 112 can communicates with the SF node 123 by transmitting the fault tracing
detection request packet, and then determine the forwarding between the SFE 112 and
the SF node 123.

It is hence believed that the application now fulfils the requirements of Alt. 84 EPC.

III. NOVELTY (ART. 54 EPC)

In the European Search Opinion, claim 1 previously on file was objected to for lacking
novelty over D1. However, the subject-matter of newly filed claim 1 differs from D1 at
least by the following distinguishing feature:

 (i) determining to communicate with a service function, SF, node (121), wherein
         the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID,
         and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain.

 (ii) sending, by the SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection response packet to a
         device for initiating fault detection, wherein the first fault tracing detection
         response packet comprises the path ID and the ID of the SF node (121).

The Search Division refers to the disclosure in paragraphs 65 to 88 of D1 holding that
the ring identity disclosed therein to be included in a detection request packet would be
equivalent to a path identifier according to claim 1. However, D1 defines a ring identity
as the identifier of a ring label switched path, LSP:

                                                                                                                                                                                  4/7
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

         "Ring ID refers to a ring identity, and is used to determine a detected ring LSP.
         The ring identity in the MPLS ring network is unique. That is, every ring LSP is
          unique." (cf. [0021] of D1)
Further, D1 defines a "ring LSP" to be a group of nodes, egg. of label switch routers,
LSR, "forming a closed ring, wherein each node is connected through a bidirectional
communication facility to two adjacent nodes" (cf. [0002] of D1). For example, as
disclosed in par. [0030] with respect to Fig. 3, the ring LSP shown therein is formed by
the eight LSRs LSR1 t0 LSR8.
Thus, contrary to claim 1, D1 does not disclose a path ID identifying a path of a service
chain. Instead, the ring ID disclosed in D1 identifies a group of LSR, i.e. a group of
nodes, that form a closed ring structure.
In view of this, the subj ect-matter of amended claim 1 is new over D1.
The subject matter of claim 9, 14 or 22 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it is also
novel.

IV. INVENTIVE STEP (ART. 56 EPC)
D1 is considered to be the closest prior art.

By means of distinguishing features (i) and (ii), the invention achieves the technical
effect of allowing detecting faults that cause a service packet to be transmitted over a
service chain, the service chain passes service function nodes in an order deferring from
the order foreseen in a planned processing order. This is achieved by the use of a fault
tracing detection request packet, and the fault tracing detection request packet may be
sent over a particular path of a service chain identified by a corresponding path
identifier. This is further achieved by obtaining an identifier of a service function node
reached by the fault tracing detection request packet over the aforesaid particular path.
This allows that each fault tracing detection request packet provided by a service
classifier is used to obtain an identifier of one service function node of the service chain
(cf. p. 27, 1. 29 to 31). A device for initiating fault detection may thereby learn

                                                                                                                                                                                 5/7
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

information about the service function nodes that the service chain passes through and
about the order thereof (cf p. 21,1. 1 to 7 of the present description).

In view of this, the obj ective technical problem addressed by the present invention can
be defined as how to improve the detection of faults in a network of service nodes.

The question to be answered is hence whether a person skilled in the art would be
prompted to modify the method and an apparatus disclosed in D1 according to
distinguishing features (i) and (ii). This is believed not to be the case, since a skilled
person wanting to improve the detection of faults in the multi-protocol label switching
LSP transport ring network disclosed in D1 would not even take into consideration the
problem of finding out the order of the nodes passed by a service package. D1 only
describes methods applied to nodes forming a ring structure in which the order passed
by a service packet transmitted over the network is fixed and determined by the
sequence of nodes along the ring structure.

For example, a service packet transmitted over the node network illustrated in Fig. 3 of
D1 is sent out from LSR1 either clockwise or anticlockwise. If the packet is transmitted
in the clockwise direction, it first reaches LSR2, then LSR3 and so on, whereas if it is
transmitted in the anticlockwise direction, it first goes from LSR1 to LSR8, then to
LSR7 and so on. D1 does in particular not disclose the possibility of sending a service
packet from a particular node to one of a plurality of nodes connected to the aforesaid
node over corresponding paths.

Therefore, a skilled person, in face of D1, would not consider the inclusion of path
identifiers into the packets disclosed therein, as these would only provide redundant
information that may already be contained in a ping command (cf. "Direction" in a ping
command as disclosed in par. [0032] and [0033]) and fail to contribute to any
technical improvement in the detection of faults at all. D1 deals with a fundamentally
different network structure and would not guide a skilled person to the present
invention.

It is further submitted that, even in view of the common general knowledge of a skilled
person, he or she would not be prompted to implement the distinguishing features (i)
and (ii) to solve the objective technical problem mentioned above.

                                                                                                                                                                                  6/7
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

Thus, the subject-matter of amended claims 1 is not only new, but further involves an
inventive step.
The subject matter of claim 9, 14 or 22 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it also
involves an inventive step.

V. CONCLUSION
Hence, the documents now on file meet all requirements of the EPC. However, if the
Examining Division still sees deficiencies in the documents now on file, a
communication under Art. 94(3) EPC is expected, or, if appropriate, a telephone
conversation with the applicant's representative can be conducted. Only as a measure
of precaution, the applicant requests for

                                             oral proceedings
if the Examining Division intends to reject the application. In this event, it is further
requested that the Oral Proceedings be either held in Munich, or by Videoconference.

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

112.2%5:!--

Dr. Steffen Schmidt

Enclosures:
-- New claims 1 to 27, clean copy and with marked-up amendments
-- New description pages1, 2, 2a and 71 to 85, clean copy and with marked-up

  amendments

62.363  7/7
