    Huawei Technologies C0., Ltd.
    EP 19 160 813.2
    H12303WOEP-A

                                                 CLAIMS

    1. A service chain fault detection method, wherein the service chain comprises a plurality of

    service function nodes, and a packet passes through according to an order of the plurality of service

    function nodes, wherein the method comprises:

    obtaining, by a service forwarding entity, SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection request packet,

    and determining, by the SFE (111), to communicate with a service function, SF, node (121), wherein

    the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is

    used to identify a path of a service chain;

    obtaining, by the SFE (111), an ID of the SF node (121); and

10  sending, by the SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection response packet to a device for initiating

    fault detection (131), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID

    and the ID of the SF node (121).

    2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining, by an SFE (111), to communicate

15 with a SF node, comprises:

    obtaining, by the SFE, a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence

    comprises the path ID and an address of the SF node;

    sending, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to

    the address of the SF node; and

20  receiving, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein

    the second fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

             3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet
       further comprises a first parameter, the first parameter is used to identify the SF node or is used to
25 identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the determining, by an SFE,
       to communicate with a SF node comprises:

             obtaining, by the SFE, a correspondence based on the path ID and the first parameter, wherein
       the correspondence comprises the path ID, the first parameter and an address of the SF node;

             sending, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to
30 the address of the SF node; and

             receiving, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein
       the second fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.
          4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet
    further comprises at least one of the first parameter and an ID of the SFE.

          5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein after the obtaining, by the SFE, the
    first fault tracing detection request packet, the method further comprises:

          sending, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection response packet to the device for initiating
    fault detection, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises an ID of the
    SFE and the path ID.

10  6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the first fault tracing detection

    request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an ID of the previous-hop

    SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the first fault tracing detection response packet

    further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and

    the node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order

15 of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

             7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the first fault tracing detection
       request packet further comprises an ID of an SF node used as an end point; and

             after the sending, by the SFE, a first fault tracing detection response packet to the device for
20 initiating fault detection, the method further comprises:

             ending, by the SFE, detection on the service chain when the ID of the SF node is the same as the
       ID of the SF node used as the end point.

    8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the obtaining, by an SFE, a first

25 fault tracing detection request packet comprises:

    receiving, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet from the device for

    initiating fault detection; or

    receiving, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet from a previous-hop SFE of

    the SFE on the service chain; or

30  generating, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet.

    9. A service chain fault detection method, wherein the service chain comprises a plurality of

    service function nodes, and a packet passes through according to an order of the plurality of service

    function nodes, wherein the method comprises:

35  sending, by a device for initiating fault detection (131), a first fault tracing detection request

    packet to a service forwarding entity, SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection request

    packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain;
          receiving, by the device for initiating fault detection (131), a first fault tracing detection response
    packet from the SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the
    path ID and an ID of a service function, SF, node (121); and

          determining, by the device for initiating fault detection (131), that forwarding between the SFE
    (111) and the SF node (121) is normal based 0n the received it") of the SF nocie.

             10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the sending, by a device for initiating fault
       detection, a first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE comprises:

             obtaining, by the device for initiating fault detection, a correspondence based on the path ID,
10 wherein the correspondence comprises the path ID and an address of the SFE; and

             sending, by the device for initiating fault detection, the first fault tracing detection request
       packet to the SFE according to the address of the SFE.

             11. The method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the first fault tracing detection request
15 packet further comprises a first parameter, and the first parameter is used to identify the SF node or

       is used to identify a previous-hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain.

              12. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the first fault tracing detection
       request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an ID of the previous-hop
20 SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the first fault tracing detection response packet
       further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and
       the node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order
        of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

25  13. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein after the sending, by the device

    for initiating fault detection, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE, the method

    further comprises:

    receiving, by the device for initiating fault detection, a second fault tracing detection response

    packet from the SFE, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path

30 ID and an ID of the SFE; and

    determining, by the device for initiating fault detection, that forwarding between the SFE and

    the device for initiating fault detection is normal based on the received in ofthe SFE.

              14. A service forwarding apparatus (111), wherein the service forwarding apparatus (111)
35 comprises:

             a first communications unit (1103; 1105), configured to: obtain a first fault tracing detection
       request packet, and then determine to communicate with a service function, SF, node (121), wherein
    the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is
    used to identify a path of a service chain, wherein the service chain comprises a plurality of service
    function nodes, and a packet passes through according to an order of the plurality of service function
    nodes;

          a first obtaining unit, configured to obtain an ID of the SF node (121); and
          a first sending unit, configured to send a first fault tracing detection response packet to the
    device for initiating fault detection (131), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet
    comprises the path ID and the ID of the SF node (121).

10  15. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the first communications

    unit is specifically configured to:

    obtain a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence comprises the path

    ID and an address of the SF node;

    send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to the address of

15 the SF node comprised in the correspondence; and

    receive a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein the second

    fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    16. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the first fault tracing

20 detection request packet further comprises a first parameter, the first parameter is used to identify

    the SF node or is used to identify a previous-hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and

    the first communications unit is specifically configured to:

    obtain a correspondence based on the path ID and the first parameter, wherein the

    correspondence comprises the path ID, the first parameter and an address of the SF node;

25  send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to the address of

    the SF node comprised in the correspondence; and

    receive a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein the second

    fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

30  17. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the first fault tracing

    detection response packet further comprises at least one of the first parameter and an ID of the

    service forwarding apparatus.

              18. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the first
35 sending unit is further configured to send a second fault tracing detection response packet to the

       device for initiating fault detection, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet
       comprises the path ID and an ID of the service forwarding apparatus.
          19. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the first
    fault tracing detection request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an
    ID of the previous-hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the first fault tracing
    detection response packet further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises
    the ID of the SF node and the node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node
    list is the same as an order of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

             20. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein the first
10 fault tracing detection request packet further comprises an ID of an SF node used as an end point;

       and
             the service forwarding apparatus further comprises:
             a control unit, configured to: after the first sending unit sends the first fault tracing detection

       response packet to the device for initiating fault detection, determine that the ID of the SF node is
15 the same as the ID of the SF node used as the end point, and end detection on the service chain.

    21. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 20, wherein
    the first communications unit is specifically configured to receive the first fault tracing

    detection request packet from the device for initiating fault detection; or

20  the first communications unit is specifically configured to receive the first fault tracing

    detection request packet from a previous-hop SFE of the service forwarding apparatus on the service

    chain; or

    the first communications unit is specifically configured to generate the first fault tracing

    detection request packet.

25

    22. A device for initiating fault detection (131), wherein the device for initiating fault detection

    (131) comprises:

          a sending unit (1306), configured to send a first fault tracing detection request packet to a
    service forwarding entity, SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet

30 comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain, wherein
       the service chain comprises a plurality of service function nodes, and a packet passes through
       according to an order of the plurality of service function nodes;
             a first receiving unit (1305), configured to receive a first fault tracing detection response packet

    from the SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID

35 and an ID of a service function, SF, node (121); and

    a first determining unit (1313), configured to determine that forwarding between the SFE (111)

    and the SF node (121) is normal based on the received ll") of the SF nocle.
             23. The device for initiating fault detection according to claim 22, wherein the sending unit is
       specifically configured to:

             obtain a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence comprises the path
        ID and an address of the SFE; and

             send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE according to the address of the
       SFE comprised in the correspondence.

               24. The device for initiating fault detection according to claim 22 or 23, wherein the first fault
10 tracing detection request packet further comprises a first parameter, and the first parameter is used

       to identify the SF node or is used to identify a previous-hop SF node of the SF node on the service
        chain.

             25. The device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein the
15 first fault tracing detection request packet further comprises a node list, wherein the node list

       comprises an ID of the previous-hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and
             the first fault tracing detection response packet further comprises an updated node list, the

       updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the node list, and an order of all SF nodes
       comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

20

             26. The device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein the
       device for initiating fault detection further comprises:

             a second receiving unit, configured to receive a second fault tracing detection response packet
       from the SFE, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID and
25 an ID of the SFE; and

             the first determining unit is further configured to determine that forwarding between the SFE
        and the fault detection is normal based on the received ll") of the SFE.

             27. A system, comprising a service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 21,
30 and a device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 26.
