                                               CLAIMS

    1. A service chain fault detection method, wherein the service chain comprises a plurality of

    service function nodes, and a packet passes through according to an order of the plurality of service

    function nodes, wherein the method comprises:

    obtaining, by a service forwarding entity, SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection request packet,

    and determining, by the SFE (111), to communicate With a service function, SF, node (121), wherein

    the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path 1]) is used

    to identify a path of a service chain;

    obtaining, by the SFE (111), an ID of the SF node (121); and

10  sending, by the SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection response packet to a device for

    initiating fault detection (131), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the

    path ID and the ID of the SF node (121).

    2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining, by an SFE (111), to communicate

    With 21 SF node, comprises:

15  obtaining, by the SFE, a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence

    comprises the path ID and an address of the SF node;

    sending, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to

    the address of the SF node; and

    receiving, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein

20 the second fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet

    further comprises a first parameter, the first parameter is used to identify the SF node or is used to

    identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the determining, by an SFE,

    to communicate With 21 SF node comprises:

25  obtaining, by the SFE, a correspondence based on the path ID and the first parameter, wherein

    the correspondence comprises the path ID, the first parameter and an address of the SF node;

    sending, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to

    the address of the SF node; and

    receiving, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein

30 the second fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet
    further comprises at least one of the first parameter and an ID of the SFE.

    5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein after the obtaining, by the SFE,

    the first fault tracing detection request packet, the method further comprises:

    sending, by the SFE, a second fault tracing detection response packet to the device for initiating

    fault detection, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises an ID of the

    SFE and the path ID.

    6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the first fault tracing detection

    request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an ID of the previous--hop

    SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the first fault tracing detection response packet

10 further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the

    node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of

    all the SF nodes on the service chain.

    7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the first fault tracing detection

    request packet further comprises an ID of an SF node used as an end point; and

15  after the sending, by the SFE, a first fault tracing detection response packet to the device for

    initiating fault detection, the method further comprises:

    ending, by the SFE, detection on the service chain When the ID of the SF node is the same as the

    ID of the SF node used as the end point.

    8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the obtaining, by an SFE, a first

20 fault tracing detection request packet comprises:

    receiving, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet from the device for

    initiating fault detection; or

    receiving, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet from a previous--hop SFE

    of the SFE on the service chain; or

25  generating, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request packet.

    9. A service chain fault detection method, wherein the service chain comprises a plurality of

    service function nodes, and a packet passes through according to an order of the plurality of service

    function nodes, wherein the method comprises:

    sending, by a device for initiating fault detection (131), a first fault tracing detection request

30 packet to a service forwarding entity, SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection request

    packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path 1]) is used to identify a path of a service chain;

    receiving, by the device for initiating fault detection (131), a first fault tracing detection

    response packet from the SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet

    comprises the path ID and an ID of a service function, SF, node (121); and
              determining, by the device for initiating fault detection (131), that forwarding between the SFE
        (111) and the SF node (121) is normal.

              10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the sending, by a device for initiating fault
       detection, a first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE comprises:

              obtaining, by the device for initiating fault detection, a correspondence based on the path ID,
       wherein the correspondence comprises the path ID and an address of the SFE; and

              sending, by the device for initiating fault detection, the first fault tracing detection request
       packet to the SFE according to the address of the SFE.

              11. The method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the first fault tracing detection request
10 packet further comprises a first parameter, and the first parameter is used to identify the SF node or is

       used to identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain.
              12. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the first fault tracing detection

       request packet further comprises a node list, and the node list comprises an ID of the previous--hop
       SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the first fault tracing detection response packet
15 further comprises an updated node list, the updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the
       node list, and an order of all SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of
       all the SF nodes on the service chain.

              13. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein after the sending, by the device
       for initiating fault detection, the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE, the method
20 further comprises:

              receiving, by the device for initiating fault detection, a second fault tracing detection response
       packet from the SFE, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path
        1]) and an ID of the SFE; and

              determining, by the device for initiating fault detection, that forwarding between the SFE and
25 the device for initiating fault detection is normal.

              14. A service forwarding apparatus (111), wherein the service forwarding apparatus (111)
       comprises:

              a first communications unit (1103; 1105), configured to: obtain a first fault tracing detection
        request packet, and then determine to communicate With a service function, SF, node (121), wherein
30 the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path 1]) is used
       to identify a path of a service chain, wherein the service chain comprises a plurality of service
       function nodes, and a packet passes through according to an order of the plurality of service function
        nodes;

              a first obtaining unit, configured to obtain an ID of the SF node (121); and
    a first sending unit, configured to send a first fault tracing detection response packet to the

    device for initiating fault detection (131), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet

    comprises the path ID and the ID of the SF node (121).

    15. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the first communications

    unit is specifically configured to:

    obtain a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence comprises the path

    1]) and an address of the SF node;
          send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to the address of

    the SF node comprised in the correspondence; and

10  receive a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein the second

    fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    16. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the first fault tracing

    detection request packet further comprises a first parameter, the first parameter is used to identify the

    SF node or is used to identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the

15 first communications unit is specifically configured to:
              obtain a correspondence based on the path ID and the first parameter, wherein the

    correspondence comprises the path ID, the first parameter and an address of the SF node;

    send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SF node according to the address of

    the SF node comprised in the correspondence; and

20  receive a second fault tracing detection request packet from the SF node, wherein the second

    fault tracing detection request packet comprises the path ID.

    17. The service forwarding apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the first fault tracing

    detection response packet further comprises at least one of the first parameter and an ID of the

    service forwarding apparatus.

25  18. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein the first

    sending unit is further configured to send a second fault tracing detection response packet to the

    device for initiating fault detection, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet

    comprises the path ID and an ID of the service forwarding apparatus.

    19. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the first

30 fault tracing detection request packet further comprises a node list, and the node 1ist comprises an ID
       of the previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and the first fault tracing detection

    response packet further comprises an updated node list, the updated node 1ist comprises the ID of the

    SF node and the node list, and an order of 2111 SF nodes comprised in the updated node list is the same

    as an order of all the SF nodes on the service chain.
         20. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 19, wherein the first

    fault tracing detection request packet further comprises an ID of an SF node used as an end point;

    and

         the service forwarding apparatus further comprises:

         a control unit, configured to: after the first sending unit sends the first fault tracing detection

    response packet to the device for initiating fault detection, determine that the ID of the SF node is the

    same as the ID of the SF node used as the end point, and end detection on the service chain.

         21. The service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 20, wherein

         the first communications unit is specifically configured to receive the first fault tracing detection

10 request packet from the device for initiating fault detection; or

         the first communications unit is specifically configured to receive the first fault tracing detection

    request packet from a previous--hop SFE 0f the service forwarding apparatus 0n the service chain; or

         the first communications unit is specifically configured to generate the first fault tracing

    detection request packet.

15       22. A device for initiating fault detection (131), wherein the device for initiating fault detection

    (131) comprises:

         a sending unit (1306), configured to send a first fault tracing detection request packet to a

    service forwarding entity, SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection request packet

    comprises a path identifier, ID, and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain, wherein

20 the service chain comprises a plurality of service function nodes, and a packet passes through

    according to an order of the plurality of service function nodes;

         a first receiving unit (1305), configured to receive a first fault tracing detection response packet

    from the SFE (111), wherein the first fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID

    and an ID of a service function, SF, node (121); and

25       a first determining unit (1313), configured to determine that forwarding between the SFE (111)

    and the SF node (121) is normal.

         23. The device for initiating fault detection according to claim 22, wherein the sending unit is

    specifically configured to:

         obtain a correspondence based on the path ID, wherein the correspondence comprises the path

30 ID and an address of the SFE; and

         send the first fault tracing detection request packet to the SFE according to the address of the

    SFE comprised in the correspondence.

         24. The device for initiating fault detection according to claim 22 or 23, wherein the first fault

    tracing detection request packet further comprises a first parameter, and the first parameter is used to
       identify the SF node or is used to identify a previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service
       chain.

              25. The device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein the
       first fault tracing detection request packet further comprises a node list, wherein the node list
       comprises an ID of the previous--hop SF node of the SF node on the service chain; and

              the first fault tracing detection response packet further comprises an updated node list, the
       updated node list comprises the ID of the SF node and the node list, and an order of all SF nodes
       comprised in the updated node list is the same as an order of all the SF nodes on the service chain.

              26. The device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein the
10 device for initiating fault detection further comprises:

              a second receiving unit, configured to receive a second fault tracing detection response packet
       from the SFE, wherein the second fault tracing detection response packet comprises the path ID and
        an ID of the SFE; and

              the first determining unit is further configured to determine that forwarding between the SFE
15 and the fault detection is normal.

              27. A system, comprising a service forwarding apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to
       21, and a device for initiating fault detection according to any one of claims 22 to 26.
