                                                            BOEHMERT 81 BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 M'L'mchen Germany  Ihr Zeichen/your ref.                                                  Dr. Steffen Schmidt

Eu ropaISCheS Patentamt                                     19 160 813.2                                                           Pettenkoferstrafie 22

80469 Miinchen                                              Ihre Nachn'cht /your letter                                            80336 Mfinchen
                                                                                                                                   Germany
                                                            Unser Zeichen / our ref.
                                                                                                                                   T +49-89 559680
                                                            H12303WOEP-A                                                           F +49-89-559685090

                                                                                                                         Mfinchen  s.schmidt@boehmert.de
                                                                                                                                   www.boehmert.de
                                                                  14.12.2020
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ing. Kari Boehmerl PA(189971973)
European Patent Application 191608132                                                                                              DipI.-|ng. Albert Boehmerl PAUBOZrIBBE)
SERVICE CHAIN FAULT DETECTION METHOD AND                                                                                           Wilhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA, Bremen
APPARATUS                                                                                                                          Dr.-|ng. Walter Hoormann PA`, Bremen
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.                                                                                                      Prol. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA', Manchen, Shanghai
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PA`, Manchen
In response to the communication pursuant to Alt. 94 (3) EPC dated                                                                 Woll-Dieter Kuntze RA, Bremen
August 3, 2020, it is requested to proceed with the further                                                                        Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA, Bremen
examination on the basis of new claims 1 to 27 replacing all claims                                                                DipI.-|ng. Eva Liesegang PA', Manchen
previously on file and the remaining documents as currently on file.                                                               DipI.-Phys. Dr. Sielan Schohe PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PA', Bleleteld
I. AMENDMENTS                                                                                                                      Dr. Marlin Wirlz RA, Dasseldon, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Dr. CarI-Richard Haarmann RA, Manchen
Newly filed claim 9 is amended based on the pending claim 9 and the                                                                DipI.-Phys. Christian W. Appeh PA', Manchen
feature "based on the received ID of the SF node", which is disclosed                                                              DipI.-Phys. Dr.-|ng. Uwe Manasse PA', Bremen
in paragraph [0128] or paragraph [0153] of the translated original                                                                 DipI.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Binner PA`, Berlm
description.                                                                                                                       Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA, Manchen, Pans
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biol. Dr. Jan B. KrauB PA', Manchen
Newly filed claim 22 is amended based on the pending claim 22 and                                                                  DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA`, Manchen
the feature "based on the received ID of the SF node", which                                                                       DipI.-Chem. Dr. KarI-Heinz B. Menen PA`,Frank1urI
disclosed on paragraph [0128] or paragraph [0153] of the translated                                                                DipI.-Ing. Nils T. F. Schmid PA', Dea Manchen, Pans
original description.                                                                                                              Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA, Lm en dram, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA, BellMAllCame
Newly filed claim 13 is amended based on the pending claim 13 and                                                                  DipI.-Chem. Dr. Volker Scholz PA`, Bremen
the feature "based on the received ID of the SFE", which is disclosed                                                              Dr. Marlin Schaeler RA, Berlm
in paragraph [0243] or paragraph [0244] of the translated original                                                                 DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Harlig PA', Manchen
description.                                                                                                                       DipI.-Phys. Dr. Siefien Schmidt PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Lucke PA', Manchen
Newly filed claim 22 is amended based on the pending claim 22 and                                                                  DipI.-Chem. Dr. Ule Kilger PA', Berlin
the feature "based on the received ID of the SFE", which is disclosed                                                              Mane Nemwig, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Rudoll Béckenholt, LL.M. RA, Bremen
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschaft mbB - Patentanwilte Rechtsanwilte - AG Bremen-PR 358 HB                                   Peier GroB, LL.M. RA, MunchenAlmame
Mfinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Dfisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Pan's - Shanghai                                     DipI.-|ng. Felix Hermann PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Bjérn Bahlmann RA, Manchen, Frankmrl
Informationen zum Datenschutz                                                                                                      DipI.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Kreischmann PA', Manchen
www.boehmert.de/datenschutz                                                                                                        Dr. Michael Rfiberg, LL.M. RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA`, Dflsseldon
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|nlorm. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biol. Dr. David Kunenkeuler PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Marlin Erbacher PA`, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA`,Frank1url,M£Jnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebasiian Engels RA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA, Manchen

                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PA`,Frank1url,M£Jnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. KaIrin Seibi RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Xia Plafienzeller PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Caiharina G612 RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|nlorm. Fritz Jetzek PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Holmann PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Julia Mfiller PA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Florian Malescha, M.Sc. PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyfirek PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Tech. Math. Felix Dietrich PA`, Beflm
                                                                                                                                   Lars Eggersdorler RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Yannick Schim, M.Sc. Inlorm. PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Ing. Simon Cornet PA, Dassekmn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|ng. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Robert Bernin PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Ing. Jan G6ring PA`,Frank1url
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flemje PA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lennarl-Knud Lieleith PA,Frank1url
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara Gwinner PA, Manchen

                                                                                                                                   PA Palemanwall/Palem Allamey `Eumpean Patent Allamey
                                                                                                                                   RA Rechlsanwall/Allomey at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   " Ageme de la Pmpledad lnduslnal (Spanish / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Verlrelung var dem EUlPO 7 Marken um Designs
                                                                                                                                   Represemamn al EUlPO 7 Trade marks and Designs
                                              éfi BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

in paragraph [0243] or paragraph [0244] of the translated original description.

II. OBJECTIONS UNDER ART. 84 EPC

With respect to item 3.1 of the communication, the term "fault" of claims 1, 9, 14 and 22
is aimed to detect the sequence of a SF node in a service chain, such as the SFE 0f the
independent claims determines communicating with a SF node corresponding to the
path ID included in the received fault tracing detection request packet, and then
obtains the ID of the SF node, and sends the path ID and the ID of the SF node to a
device for initiating fault detection. The device for initiating fault detection can
determine whether the sequence of a SF node is correctly based on the received ID of
the SF node and the path ID, which is not the action performed by the SFE. As
described on p. 20, 1. 19 to 25 0f the present description with reference to Fig. 1, the
invention aims at implementing an improvement in conventional detection methods
that are not able to detect an abnormality, i.e. fault, causing a service packet to be
transmitted over a set of service function nodes in an order different from that
originally foreseen. As explained with respect to Fig. 1, if a service processing order
planned on a service chain specifies that a packet forwarded 0n the service chain should
first pass the service function node 121 and then pass the service function node 122, and
an abnormality causes the service packet to instead pass service function node 122 first
and then service function node 121, a conventional detection device is not able to detect
such a fault related to the abnormal order of the service function nodes passed by the
service packet.

The invention proposes a solution to solve this problem based on the use of fault
tracing detection request packets. The fault tracing detection request packets detect
service function entities and service function nodes connected within a service chain,
and the solution allows determining the locations of the service function nodes
according to an order of sending fault tracing detection request packets comprising
identifiers 0f the paths and service function nodes (cf. p. 20, 1. 26 to 33 and p. 27, 1. 10
to 23 0f the present description). Specifically, the SFE of claim 1 obtains an ID of the
SF node after determining the SFE communicates with the SF node, and the SFE send
the ID of the SF node by sending a first fault tracing detection response packet (1032)
to the device for initiating fault detection, and the first fault tracing detection response
packet (1032) includes the ID of the SF node. According to the ID of the SF node, the
device for initiating fault detection can obtain the result of fault detection.

The applicant submits that the wordings of newly filed claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 now
define the terms that had been obj ected to in a clear manner and in terms of technical
features. It is hence believed that claims 1, 9, 14 and 22 on file fulfils the requirements

OfAI't. 84 EPC.
                                              éfi BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

With respect to item 3.2, claims 9 and 22 are amended. Based on the amended claims 9
and 22, the objection is overcome.

In response to the request for two-paIt form in item 5.1, it is submitted that the subj ect
matter of claim 1 or 9 relates to a method whose method steps are interrelated with
each other, while the inventive step concerns changes in several of these interrelated
method steps. And the subject matter of claim 14 or 22 relates to a complex
apparatus of functionally inter-related parts, while the inventive step concerns changes
in several of these parts of the apparatus. Therefore, the use of the two-paIt form is
considered to be inappropriate, since it would give a distorted picture of the claimed
invention and would lead to an artificial lack of clarity of the respective claim. Hence, it
is requested to allow the one-paIt form in the present case.

III. NOVELTY (ART. 54 EPC)

Claim 1 on file was objected to for lacking novelty over D1. However, the subj ect-matter
of claim 1 differs from D1 at least by the following distinguishing feature:

  (i) determining to communicate with a service function, SF, node (121), wherein
         the first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID,
          and the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain.

 (ii) sending, by the SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection response packet to a
          device for initiating fault detection, wherein the first fault tracing detection
          response packet comprises the path ID and the ID of the SF node (121).

The communication refers to the disclosure in paragraphs 65 to 88 of D1 that the ring
identity disclosed therein to be included in a detection request packet would be
equivalent to a path identifier according to claim 1. However, D1 defines a ring identity
as the identifier of a ring label switched path, LSP:

"Ring ID refers to a ring identity, and is used to determine a detected ring LSP. The
ring identity in the MPLS ring network is unique. That is, every ring LSP is unique."
(see [0021] of D1)

Further, D1 defines a "ring LSP" to be a group of nodes, egg. of label switch routers,
LSR, "forming a closed ring, wherein each node is connected through a bidirectional
communication facility to two adjacent nodes" (cf. [0002] of D1). For example, as
disclosed in par. [0030] with respect to Fig. 3, the ring LSP shown therein is formed by
the eight LSRs LSR1 to LSR8.
                                              éfi BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Further, paragraph [0046] and paragraph [0047] of D1 discloses that the ring ingress
node sends the detection request packet to a first intermediate node LSR2 after the ring
ingress node LSR1; LSR2 searches the protocol layer of the ring LSP, acquires an
outgoing label of LSR2, replaces the outgoing label of LSR1 with the outgoing label of
LSR2, and then sends the detection request packet with the replaced label to a next
node LSR3; LSR3 replaces the outgoing label of LSR2 in the received detection request
packet with an outgoing label of LSR3, and sends the detection request packet to LSR4;
LSR4 ej ects the outgoing label in the detection request packet, and sends the detection
request packet to the ring egress node LSR5. The LSR of D1 can not perform
service processing provided bv an SF node. And in D1, anv LSR of the ring
is used for transmitting the received packet to the next LSR. the structure
between the two LSRs is not the same as the structure between an SFE and
an SF node of claim 1, such as LSR1 sends a detection reguest packet to
LSR2, and LSR2 sends the detection request to LSR3. LSR2 does not
perform determining whether to communicate with a node equivalent to
the SF node of claim 1 and does not send a response to LSR1 with an ID of
the node.

Thus, contrary to claim 1, D1 does not disclose feature (i) and feature (ii).

In view of this, the subj ect-matter of amended claim 1 is new over D1.

The subject matter of claim 9, 14 or 22 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it is also
novel.

IV. INVENTIVE STEP (ART. 56 EPC)

D1 is considered to be the closest prior art.

By means of distinguishing features (i) and (ii), the invention achieves the technical
effect of allowing detecting faults that cause a service packet to be transmitted over a
service chain, the service chain passes service function nodes in an order deferring from
the order foreseen in a planned processing order. This is achieved by the use of a fault
tracing detection request packet, and the fault tracing detection request packet may be
sent over a particular path of a service chain identified by a corresponding path
identifier. This is further achieved by obtaining an identifier of a service function node
reached by the fault tracing detection request packet over the aforesaid particular path.
This allows that each fault tracing detection request packet provided by a service
classifier is used to obtain an identifier of one service function node of the service chain
(cf. p. 27, 1. 15 to 17). A device for initiating fault detection may thereby learn

                                                                                                                                                                                 4/5
        éfi BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

information about the service function nodes that the service chain passes through and
about the order thereof (cf p. 20, l. 26 to 33 of the present description).

In view of this, the obj ective technical problem addressed by the present invention can
be defined as how to improve the detection of faults in a service chain.

The question to be answered is hence whether a person skilled in the art would be
prompted to modify the method and an apparatus disclosed in D1 according to
distinguishing features (i) and (ii). This is believed not to be the case, since a skilled
person wanting to improve the detection of faults in the multi-protocol label switching
LSP transport ring network disclosed in D1 would not even take into
consideration the problem of improving the detection of faults in a service
chain as the ring of D1 does not implement the function of the service chain
and does not include the SF node of the service chain.

Thus, the subject-matter of amended claims 1 is not only new, but further involves an
inventive step.

The subject matter of claim 9, 14 or 22 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it also
involves an inventive step.

V. CONCLUSION

Thus, the documents now on file should meet all requirements of the EPC. However, if
the Examining Division still sees deficiencies in the documents now on file, a telephone
conversation with the applicant's representative is suggested. Only as a measure of
precaution the applicant's request for

                                             Oral Proceedings

is maintained if the Examining Division does intends to rej ect the application.

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

flmww

Dr. Steffen Schmidt

Enclosures:
New set of claims 1 -- 27, clean and marked version

62.368                                                                                      5/ 5
