                                                            BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 M'L'mchen Germany  Ihr Zeichen/your ref.                                                  Dr. Steffen Schmidt

Eu ropaISCheS Patentamt                                     19 160 813.2                                                           Pettenkoferstrafie 22

80469 Miinchen                                              Ihre Nachn'cht /your letter                                            80336 Mfinchen
                                                                                                                                   Germany
                                                            Unser Zeichen / our ref.
                                                                                                                                   T +49-89 559680
                                                            H12303WOEP-A                                                           F +49-89-559685090

                                                                                                                         Mfinchen  s.schmidt@boehmert.de
                                                                                                                                   www.boehmert.de
                                                                  05.07.2021
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ing. Kari Boehmerl PA(189971973)
European Patent Application 191608132                                                                                              DipI.-|ng. Albert Boehmerl PAUBOZrIBBE)
SERVICE CHAIN FAULT DETECTION METHOD AND                                                                                           Wilhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA, Bremen
APPARATUS                                                                                                                          Dr.-|ng. Walter Hoormann PA`, Bremen
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.                                                                                                      Prol. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA', Manchen, Shanghai
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PA`, Manchen
In response to the communication pursuant to Alt. 94 (3) EPC dated                                                                 Woll-Dieter Kuntze RA, Bremen
March 3, 2021, it is requested to proceed with the further examination                                                             Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA, Bremen
on the basis of new claims 1 to 23 replacing all claims previously on                                                              DipI.-|ng. Eva Liesegang PA', Manchen
file and the remaining documents as currently on file.                                                                             DipI.-Phys. Dr. Sielan Schohe PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PA', Bleleteld
I. AMENDMENTS                                                                                                                      Dr. Marlin Wirlz RA, Dasseldon, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Dr. CarI-Richard Haarmann RA, Manchen
Newly filed claim 1 is based on the combination of pending claims 1                                                                DipI.-Phys. Christian W. Appeh PA', Manchen
and 5.                                                                                                                             DipI.-Phys. Dr.-|ng. Uwe Manasse PA', Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Binner PA`, Berlm
Newly filed claim 8 is based on the combination of pending claims 9                                                                Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA, Manchen, Pans
and 13.                                                                                                                            DipI.-Biol. Dr. Jan B. KrauB PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA`, Manchen
Newly filed claim 12 is based on the combination of pending claims 14                                                              DipI.-Chem. Dr. KarI-Heinz B. Menen PA`,Frank1urI
and 18.                                                                                                                            DipI.-Ing. Nils T. F. Schmid PA', Bea. Manchen, Pans
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA, Lm en dram, Manchen
Newly filed claim 19 is based on the combination of pending claims 22                                                              Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA, BellmAllCEmIe
and 26.                                                                                                                            DipI.-Chem. Dr. Volker Scholz PA`, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Marlin Schaeler RA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Harlig PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Siefien Schmidt PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Lucke PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Ule Kilger PA', Berlin
                                                                                                                                   Mane Nemwig, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Rudoll Béckenholt, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Peier GroB, LL.M. RA, MunchenAlmame
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|ng. Felix Hermann PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Bjérn Bahlmann RA, Manchen, Frankmrl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Kreischmann PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Michael Rfiberg, LL.M. RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA`, Dflsseldon
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|nlorm. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biol. Dr. David Kunenkeuler PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Marlin Erbacher PA`, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA`,Frank1url,M£Jnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebasiian Engels RA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Holmann PA', Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Florian Malescha, M.Sc. PA', Manchen

                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PA`,Frank1url,M£Jnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. KaIrin Seibi RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Xia Plafienzeller PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Caiharina G612 RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|nlorm. Fritz Jetzek PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Julia Mfiller PA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyfirek PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Tech. Math. Felix Dietrich PA`, Beflm
                                                                                                                                   Lars Eggersdorler RA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Yannick Schim, M.Sc. Inlorm. PA`, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Ing. Simon Cornet PA, Dassekmn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-|ng. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA, Berlm
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Robert Bernin PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Ing. Jan G6ring PA`,Frank1url
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flemje PA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lennarl-Knud Lieleith PA,Frank1url
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara Gwinner PA, Manchen
                                                                                                                                   Alexander Thamer RA, Beflm
                                                                                                                                   Paul Schieler, M.Sc. PA, Manchen

                                                                                                                                   PA Palemanwall/Palem Allamey `Eumpean Patent Allamey
                                                                                                                                   RA Rechlsanwall/Allomey at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   " Ageme de la Pmpledad lnduslnal (Spanish / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Verlrelung var dem EUlPO 7 Marken um Designs
                                                                                                                                   Represemamn al EUlPO 7 Trade marks and Designs

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschaft mbB - Patentanwilte Rechtsanwilte - AG Bremen-PR 358 HB
Mfinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Dfisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Pan's - Shanghai

Informationen zum Datenschutz
www.boehmert.de/datenschutz
                                                                        ; BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

II. OBJECTIONS UNDER ART. 84 EPC

With respect to item 3.1 of the communication, the term "fault detection" in claims 1, 8,
12 or 19 is aimed to detect whether a SF node is attached to the SFE, such as the SFE 0f
the independent claims determines to communicate with a SF node corresponding to the
path ID included in the received fault tracing detection request packet, and then obtains
the ID of the SF node, and sends the path ID and the ID of the SF node to a device for
initiating fault detection. Further, the SFE sends a second fault tracing detection
response packet to the device for initiating fault detection to inform it about the ID of the
SFE and the path ID. The device for initiating fault detection can determine whether the
SF node is correctly attached to the SFE based on the received ID of the SF node, the path
ID and the ID of the SF, which is not an action performed by the SFE.

The invention proposes a solution to solve a problem (how to detect whether a SF node
is attached to the SFE) based on the use of fault tracing detection request packets. The
fault tracing detection request packets detect a SF node and a SFE associated with a
service chain, and the solution allows determining the locations of a SF node according
to an ID of the SF node, an ID of the SFE and a path ID. Specifically, the SFE of claim 1
obtains an ID of the SF node after determining that the SFE communicates with the SF
node. The SFE sends the ID of the SF node by sending a first fault tracing detection
response packet (1032) to the device for initiating fault detection and sends a second
fault tracing detection response packet to the device for initiating fault detection. The
first fault tracing detection response packet (1032) includes the ID of the SF node and
the path ID. The second fault tracing detection response packet comprises an ID of the
SFE and the path ID. According to the ID of the SF node, the ID of the SFE and the path
ID, the device for initiating fault detection can obtain the result of fault detection that is
whether the SF nod is attached to the correct SFE.

The applicant submits that the wordings of newly filed claim 1, 8, 12 or 19 now define the
terms that had been obj ected to in a clear manner and in terms of technical features. It
is hence believed that claim 1, 8, 12 or 19 on file fulfils the requirements ofAIt. 84 EPC.

With respect to item 3.3, claims 12 and 19 are amended. Based on the amended claims
12 and 19, the objection is overcome.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2/6
                                                                        ; BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

In response to the request for two-paIt form in item 5.1, it is submitted that the subj ect
matter of claim 1 or 8 relates to a method whose method steps are interrelated with
each other, while the inventive step concerns changes in several of these interrelated
method steps. And the subj ect matter of claim 12 or 19 relates to a complex apparatus
of functionally inter-related parts, while the inventive step concerns changes in several
of these parts of the apparatus. Therefore, the use of the two--paIt form is considered to
be inappropriate, since it would give a distorted picture of the claimed invention and
would lead to an artificial lack of clarity of the respective claim. Hence, it is requested to
allow the one-paIt form in the present case.

III. NOVELTY (ART. 54 EPC)

Claim 1 on file was objected to for lacking novelty over D1. However, the subj ect-matter
of claim 1 differs from D1 at least by the following distinguishing feature:

  (i) determining to communicate with a service function, SF, node (121), wherein the
          first fault tracing detection request packet comprises a path identifier, ID, and
         the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain.

 (ii) sending, by the SFE (111), a first fault tracing detection response packet to a
          device for initiating fault detection, wherein the first fault tracing detection
          response packet comprises the path ID and the ID of the SF node (121).

(iii) wherein after the obtaining, by the SFE, the first fault tracing detection request
         packet, the method further comprises: sending, by the SFE, a second fault tracing
          detection response packet to the device for initiating fault detection, wherein the
          second fault tracing detection response packet comprises an ID of the SFE and
         the path ID.

The present communication refers to the disclosure in paragraphs 65 to 88 of D1. The
ring identity disclosed therein to be included in a detection request packet was compared
with the path identifier in claim 1. However, D1 defines a ring identity as the identifier of
a ring label switched path, LSP, as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                 3/6
                                                                        ; BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

"Ring ID refers to a ring identity, and is used to determine a detected ring LSP. The ring
identity in the MPLS ring network is unique. That is, every ring LSP is unique." (see
[0021] of D1)

Further, D1 defines a "ring LSP" as a group of nodes, egg. of label switch routers, LSR,
"forming a closed ring, wherein each node is connected through a bidirectional
communication facility to two adjacent nodes" (cf. [0002] of D1). For example, as
disclosed in par. [0030] with respect to Fig. 3, the ring LSP shown therein is formed by
the eight LSRs: LSR1 t0 LSR8.

Further, paragraphs [0046] and [0047] of D1 disclose that the ring ingress node sends
the detection request packet to a first intermediate node LSR2 after the ring ingress node
LSR1; LSR2 searches the protocol layer of the ring LSP, acquires an outgoing label of
LSR2, replaces the outgoing label of LSR1 with the outgoing label of LSR2, and then
sends the detection request packet with the replaced label to a next node LSR3; LSR3
replaces the outgoing label of LSR2 in the received detection request packet with an
outgoing label of LSR3, and sends the detection request packet to LSR4; LSR4 ejects the
outgoing label in the detection request packet, and sends the detection request packet to
the ring egress node LSR5. Thus, the LSR of D1 can not perform service
processing provided bv an SF node. In D1, anv LSR of the ring is used for
transmitting the received packet to the next LSR. The structure between the
two LSRs is not the same as the structure between an SFE and an SF node of
claim 1, as LSR1 sends a detection reguest packet to LSR2, and LSR2 sends
the detection request to LSBg. LSR2 does not perform determining whether
to communicate with a node equivalent to the SF node of claim 1 and does
not send a response to LSR1 with an ID of the node. Furthermore, none of
the LSRs sends a response to the first LSR for sending an ID of the LSR and
the ring ID.

Thus, contrary to claim 1, D1 does not disclose feature (i) to feature (iii).

In view of this, the subj ect-matter of amended claim 1 is new over D1.

                                                                                                                                                                                 4/6
                                                                        ; BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

The subject matter of claim 8, 12 or 19 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it is also
novel.

IV. INVENTIVE STEP (ART. 56 EPC)

D1 is considered to be the closest prior art.

By means of distinguishing features (i) and (iii), the invention achieves the technical
effect of allowing detecting faults that cause a service packet to be transmitted over a
service chain, wherein the service chain passes service function nodes in an order
deferring from the order foreseen in a planned processing order, such as whether the SF
node is attached to the SFE. This is achieved by the use of a fault tracing detection request
packet, and the fault tracing detection request packet may be sent over a particular path
of a service chain identified by a corresponding path identifier. This is further achieved
by obtaining an identifier of a service function node and an identifier of a SFE reached
by the fault tracing detection request packet over the aforesaid particular path. This
allows that each fault tracing detection request packet provided by a service classifier is
used to obtain an identifier of one service function node of the service chain (cf. p. 27, l.
15 to 17) and an identifier of a SFE to which the SF node is attached. A device for initiating
fault detection may thereby learn information about the service function nodes that the
service chain passes through and about the order (whether the SF node is attached to the
correct SFE) thereof (cf p. 20,1. 26 to 33 of the present description).

In view of this, the obj ective technical problem addressed by the present invention can
be defined as how to improve the detection of faults in a service chain.

The question to be answered is hence whether a person skilled in the art would be
prompted to modify the method and an apparatus disclosed in D1 according to
distinguishing features (i) and (iii). This is believed not to be the case, since a skilled
person wanting to improve the detection of faults in the multi-protocol label switching
LSP transport ring network disclosed in D1 would not even take into consideration
the problem of improving the detection of faults in a service chain as the ring
of D1 does not implement the function of the service chain and does not
include the SF node of the service chain.

                                                                                                                                                                                 5/6
                                                                        ; BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

Thus, the subject-matter of amended claims 1 is not only new, but further involves an
inventive step.
The subject matter of claim 8, 12 or 19 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it also
involves an inventive step.
V. CONCLUSION
Thus, the documents now on file should meet all requirements of the EPC. However, if
the Examining Division still sees deficiencies in the documents now on file, a telephone
conversation with the applicant's representative is suggested. Only as a measure of
precaution the applicant's request for

                                             Oral Proceedings
is maintained if the Examining Division does intends to rej ect the application.
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

flatwaww

Dr. Steffen Schmidt

Enclosures:
-- New set of claims 1 -- 23, clean and marked version

62.363  6/6
