                                                           BOEHMERT 81 BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 Miinchen Germany  1hr Zeichen / your ref.                                                 Dr. Matthias Hofmann

Online filing                                              19 160 8132                                                             Pettenkoferstrafie 22
Europ'eiisches Patentamt
80298 Miinchen                                             Ihre Nachticht / your letter                                            80336 Mfinchen
                                                                                                                                   Germany
                                                           Unser Zeichen / our ref.
                                                                                                                                   T +49-89 559680
                                                           H12303WOEP-A                                                            F +49-89-559685090

                                                                                                                         Mfinchen  hofmann@boehme1`t.de
                                                                                                                                   www.boehmert.de
                                                                                           10.05.2022
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ing. Karl Boehmen PA(159$1973)
European Patent Application EP 19 160 813.2                                                                                        Dipl.-Ing.A|ber1 Boehmen PA (190271993)
SERVICE CHAIN FAULT DETECTION METHOD AND                                                                                           Wilhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA, Bremen
APPARATUS                                                                                                                          Dr.-|ng. Waller Hoormann PA", Bremen
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.                                                                                                      Prof. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA", Mflnchen, Shanghal
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PA", Mflnchen
On the communication pursuant to Art. 94(3) EPC dated 19.01.2022:                                                                  WDIf-Dieler Kunlze RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA, Bremen
It is requested to proceed with the examination on the basis of new                                                                Dipl.-Ing. Eva Liesegang PA", Mflnchen
claims 1 to 23 replacing all claims on file and the remaining documents                                                            DipI.-Phys. Dr. Stefan Schohe PA", Mflnchen
as currently on file.                                                                                                              Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PA", Blelefeld
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Martin Wiriz RA, Dflsseldofi, Bemn
I. Amendments                                                                                                                      Dr. CarI-Richard Haarmann RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Christian w. Appen PA", Mflnchen
New claim 1 is based on previous claim 1 and on par. [0013], [0085],                                                               DipI.-Phys. Dr.-|ng. Uwe Manasse PA", Bremen
[0114], and [0115] of the originally filed description.                                                                            DipI.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Binner PA", Berlln
                                                                                                                                   Dr. VolkerSchmiIz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA, Mflnchen, Pans
The following amendments are made in claim 1:                                                                                      DipI.-Biol. Dr. Jan B. KrauB PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA", Mflnchen
1st amendment: The feature directed to "the first fault tracing                                                                    DipI.-Chem. Dr. KarI-Heinz B. Meflen PA", Frankfun
detection request packet (1042) comprises a path identifier, ID, and                                                               Dip|.-|ng. Nils T. F. Schmid PA", Dea, Mflnchen, Pans
the path ID is used to identify a path of a service chain" has been                                                                Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA, Llc en dron, Mflnchen
rearranged to appear where the first fault tracing detection request                                                               Dr. Andreas Duslmann, LL.M.RA,BeI1In,AlIcanle
packet is first mentioned in the claim. This is a mere clarification that                                                          DipI.-Chem. Dr. Volker Scholz PA", Bremen
does not alter the scope of the claim.                                                                                             Dr. Martin SchaeferRA, Bemn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys.Dr.Michae|Har1ig PA", Mflnchen
2nd amendment: The feature directed to "determining, by the SFE, to                                                                DipI.-Phys. Dr. Steffen Schmidt PA", Mflnchen
communicate..." has been amended to recite "determining, by the SFE                                                                Dr. Andreas Lucke PA", Mflnchen
(111), a servicefunction, SF, node (121), based on aforwarding entry                                                               DipI.-Chem. Dr. Ule Kilger PA", Berlln
stored in a memory (1102) of the SFE (111), to which the first fault                                                               Mane Nenlwig, LL.M. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Rudolf Bfickenholl, LL.M. RA, Bremen
BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschaft mbB - Patentanwfilte Rechtsanwilte - AG Bremen-PR 358 HB                                 Peter Grols, LL.M. RA, Mflnchen, Ancame
Mfinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Dfisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Pan's - Shanghai                                     Dipl.-Ing. Felix Hermann PA", Mflnchen
Information about data protection and your lights as data subjects:                                                                Dr. ijSrn Bahlmann RA, Mflnchen, Frankfim
www.boehmert.com/data-protection                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Krelschmann PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Michael Rfiberg, LL.M. RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA", Dflsseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biol. Dr. David Kullenkeuler PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr.Mar1in Erbacher PA", Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA", Frankfun, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebastian Engels RA, Berlln
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Hofmann PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Florian Malescha, M.Sc. PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Raljen, LL.M. RA, Bremen

                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PA", Frankfun, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Kalrin Seibl RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Xia Pfaffenzeller PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Catharina Gélz RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Fritz Jetzek PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Julia MiillerPA, Berlin
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Mehmel Bengi-Akyfirek PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lars Eggersdorfer RA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Yannick Schim, M.Sc. Inform. PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-Ing. Simon Cornet PA", Dflsseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA", Bemn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Robert Bernin PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-Ing. Jan Gfiring PA", Frankfun
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flenlje PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lennan-Knud Liefeilh PA", Frankfun
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara GwinnerPA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Alexander Thamer RA, Berlln
                                                                                                                                   Paul Schieler, M.Sc. PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Michael Rfibsamen PA", Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Lohse PA, Mflnchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Jonas Boschung, M.Sc., M.Sc. PA, Dflsseldorf
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Adrian Steffens PA, Bemn
                                                                                                                                   Melanie Muller RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Giulio SchoberPA, Mflnchen

                                                                                                                                   PA PalenlanwalI/Palenl Attorney "European Patent Attorney
                                                                                                                                   RA Recmsanwan/Anorney at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   H Agents de la Propledad mdusmal (Spanlen / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Venremng vordem EUtPO , Marken und Designs
                                                                                                                                   Represenlallon at EUtPO iTrade marks and Deslgns
                                         «3'31 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

tracing detection requestpacket (1042) is to be sent. " The amended feature is supported
by pars. [0114] and [0115] as well as pars. [0082] and [0088] of the original description.

3rd amendment: New claims 1 specifies that an ID of the SF node (121) is obtained "from
the memory of the SFE". The amendment is supported by par. [0085] of the original
description.

4th amendment: Claim 1 has been amended to define that the second fault tracing
detection response packet is sent before the first fault tracing detection response packet.
The amendment is supported by par. [0085] of the original description.

Claim 8 has been amended to define that the second fault tracing detection response
packet is received before the first fault tracing detection response packet. Original
disclosure can be found in pars. [0013] and [0026] of the original description.

New claim 12 is based on previous claim 12 and on par. [0013], [0085], [0114], and [0115]
of the original description.

New claim 19 is based on previous claim 19 and on par. [0026] of the original description.

The missing refence signs have been included in the new claims.

Thus, all amendments meet the requirements of Alt. 123(2) EPC.

II. Clarity

In response to item 3.1 of the official communication, it is submitted that none of
independent claims 1, 8, 12 and 19 uses either of the terms "fault tracing detection" or
"initiatingfault detection" in isolation.

Instead, the independent claims define:

o  a "first fault tracing detection reguest packet" which comprises a path ID,

0  a "first fault tracing detection response packet" which comprises the path ID and

   the ID of the SF node, and

o  a "second fault tracing detection response packet" which comprises the path ID

   and the ID of the SFE.

                                                                                             2/6
                                                   «3'31 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Independent claim 1, 8, 12, and 19 further refer to a "devicefor initiatingfault detection",
whose technical features relevant for the claimed invention are the fact that it is
connectable to the service forwarding entity, SFE. It is hence submitted that none of the
terms "fault tracing detection" or "initiating fault detection" pose any clarity problem
regarding the subject-matter of claim 1, 8, 12, and 19.

The examining division further objects that allegedly it is not clear for the skilled person
how a fault in a planned processing order of the service function nodes can actually be
determined. The applicant respectfully disagrees. The method of claim 8 interacts with
the method of claim 1 and comprises steps of determining that forwarding between the
SFE node and the SF node is normal and that the forwarding between the SFE and the
device for initiating fault detection is normal. Thus, these determinations in combination
lead to the result that the forwarding between all devices (device for initiating fault
detection, SFE node, and SF node) is normal. Thus, the claimed invention provides a way
of determining service chain fault detection.

It is respectfully submitted that while interpreting these terms it should be noted that the
claims of a patent application should be read and interpreted with an attempt to make
technical sense of it (cf. GL F-IV 4.2) by a skilled person willing to understand, not
desirous of misunderstanding. The skilled person, when considering a claim, takes into
account the whole disclosure of the application and rules out interpretations which are
illogical or which do not make technical sense (cf. CLBA II-A 6.1).

In response to item 3.2 of the communication, the objected wording "determining to
communicate" has been cancelled from the claim. Therefore, the objection has been
overcome. Instead, new claim 1 specifies that the SFE determines a service function, SF,
node, based on a forwarding entry stored in a memory of the SFE, to which the first fault
tracing detection request packet (1042) is to be sent. Further, the amended feature
defines that the ID of the SF node is obtained from the memory of the SFE. Thus, the
new claim wording is clear to the skilled person.

Under item 3.3 of the communication, the examiner obj ects that the normal
determination is based only on one ID of an SF node. The applicant respectfully disagrees
that this causes a lack of clarity. As explained in par. [0128] of the description, it can be
determined according to the ID of the SF node 121 in the fault tracing detection response
packet, that the service chain passes through the SF node 121 connected to the SFE 111.
Therefore, it can be deduced that forwarding between the SF node 121 and the SFE 111 is
normal. This corresponds to the skilled person's understanding that "forwarding is
normal" means that a packet can be sent between the devices (here: SF and SFE).

                                                                                                                                                                                 3/6
                                            «3'31 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

III. Novelty

It is submitted that D1 fails to disclose:

a)  determining, by the SFE (111), a service fimction, SF, node (121), based on a

    forwarding entry stored in a memory (1102) of the SFE (111), to which the first

    fault tracing detection requestpacket (1042) is to be sent;

As has already been acknowledged by the examiner, D1 fails to disclose the feature
directed to the second fault tracing detection response packet. Thus, D1 does not disclose
feature a).

Further, it is submitted that D1 also fails to disclose that the second fault tracing
detection response packet is sent before the first fault tracing detection response packet.
Thus, D1 does not disclose

b) sending, by the SFE (111), a firstfault tracing detection response packet (1032)
         to a device for initiating fault detection (131), wherein the firstfault tracing
         detection response packet (1032) comprises the path ID and the ID ofthe SFnode
         (121) ; and

Furthermore, D1 does not disclose

c) before the sending, by the SFE (111), the firstfault tracing detection response
         packet (1032), the methodfurther comprises: sending, by the SFE (111), a second
         fault tracing detection response packet to the device for initiating fault
         detection, wherein the secondfault tracing detection response packet comprises
         an ID ofthe SFE (111) and the path ID

In D1, a label switching router (LSR) receives a fault detection command. The fault
detection command includes a ring egress node address, a ring identity, and a ring
direction (cf. par. [0066] of D1). The LSR sends send the fault detection request packet
after encapsulation with 'ITL along the ring direction to downstream nodes (cf. par.
[0079] of D1). Thereafter, the LSR determines that whether the fault detection reply
packet returned by a downstream node is received or not. If the packet is not received, it
is determined that the downstream node has a fault; cf. pars. [0084] and [0085] of D1.

Thus, even if it is assumed that the downstream node of D1 corresponds to the SFE, D1
fails to disclose that the downstream node sends a response packet to a device for
initiating fault detection.

                                                                                             4/6
                                                   «3'31 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Further, D1 fails to disclose that the SF node, to which fault tracing detection request
packet (1042) is to be sent, is determined according to a forwarding entry present within
the SFE.

Thus, D1 does not disclose feature c) as indicated above.

The subj ect matter of claims 8, 12 or 19 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, their subject
matter is also novel.
IV. Inventive Step
D1 is considered as closest prior art.
D1 does not disclose the above-mentioned distinguishing features a) to c).

By means of distinguishing features, the fault detection device (device for initiating fault
detection) is informed about an SF node that a service chain passes through so that the
fault detection device is able to detect if there a difference between an order of SF nodes
that the service packet passes through on the service chain and the planned processing
order. Further, the device is also informed by the ID of the SFE so that the device for
initiating fault detection is aware that it is connected to a correct SFE.
Therefore, the obj ective technical problem can be regarded as how to configure a device
for initiating fault detection so that it is able to detect a fault in an order of a service chain
in an improved manner.
Starting from D1 and in view of aforementioned objective technical problem, a skilled
person would not arrive at the claimed invention as, in D1, the decision whether a
downstream node is faulty or not is based on whether a reDlV packet is returned bV the
downstream node or not. D1 fails to disclose any hint or motivation towards configuring
a fault detecting device in a manner disclosed in claim 1.
Thus, the skilled person would not arrive at the claimed invention in view of D1. Neither
are the above features obvious in view of the skilled person's general knowledge. Thus,
the subject matter of claim 1 relies on an inventive step.
The subject matter of claims 8, 12 or 19 corresponds to that of claim 1, hence, it also
involves an inventive step.

                                                                                                                                                                                 5/6
                                                   «3; BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

V. Conclusion
In view of the amendments made and the above explanations, it is believed that the
application is now in a state acceptable for grant. Should the Examining Division,
nevertheless, still see deficiencies in the documents on file, it is kindly asked to give the
applicant the opportunity to file further arguments and, if necessary, amendments.
Minor issues could be discussed by telephone.
Only as a measure of precaution, the applicant's request for

                                             Oral Proceedings
is maintained if the Examining Division intends to reject the application. In this event, it
is further requested that the Oral Proceedings be either held in Munich, or by
Videoconference.

,«szgj @«W BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Dr. Matthias Hofmann
Enclosures
New claims 1 to 23, clean copy
New claims 1 to 23, marked-up version

                                                                                                                                                                                                           6/6
