                                                           gig» BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 Miinchen Germany  1hr Zeichen/your ref.                                                   Pettenkoferstrafie 22
                                                                                                                                   80336 Miinchen
Mg                                                         19 160 813.2
                                                                                                                                   Germany
Europaisches Patentamt                                     Ihre Nachricht / your letter
80298 Miinchen                                                                                                                     T +49--89 559680
                                                           Unser Zeichen/ our ref.                                                 F +49--89--559685090

                                                           H12303WOEP-A                                                            www.boehmert.de

                                                                                                                         Miinchen  Dr. Ing. Karl Boehmert PA(189971973)
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Albert Boehmert PA (190271993)
                                                                         02.06.2023                                                \Mlhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Walter Hoormann PA`. Bremen
European Patent Application EP 19 160 813.2                                                                                        Prof. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA`. Muflchefl` Shanghai
SERVICE CHAIN FAULT DETECTION METHOD AND                                                                                           Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PAfi Muflchefl
APPARATUS                                                                                                                          Wolf--Dieter Kuntze RA. Bremen
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.                                                                                                      Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Eva Liesegang PA`. Muflchefl
On the communication pursuant to Art. 94(3) EPC dated 08.02.2023:                                                                  DipI.-Phys. Dr. Stefan Schohe PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PAfi Bietefetd
It is requested to proceed with the examination on the basis of new                                                                Dr. Martin \Mrtz RA. Dussetdorf. Bemn
Claims 1 to 23 replacing the claims on file, and the remaining                                                                     Dr. CarI-Richard Haarmann RA. Muflchefl
documents as currently on file.                                                                                                    DipI.-Phys. Christian W. Appelt PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr.-|ng. Uwe Manasse PA`. Bremen
I. Amendments                                                                                                                      DipI.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Bittner PA`. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA. Muflchefl` Pans
Claim 1 has been amended to specify that the first fault tracing                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA`. Muflchefl
detection request packet is sent by a previous-hop service forwarding                                                              DipI.-Chem. Dr. Kad-Heinz B. Metten PA`. Frankfurt
entity, SFE 0f the SFE 0n the service chain. Original disclosure can be                                                            Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA. Lic en droit. Muflchefl
found in e.g., par. [0019] of the original description.                                                                            Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA. Bemn. Nicante
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Volker Schulz PA`. Bremen
Claim 12 has been amended similar to claim 1.                                                                                      Dr. Martin Schaefer RA. Bemn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Hartig PAfi Muflchefl` Pans
The remaining claims are unchanged.                                                                                                DipI.-Phys. Dr. Steffen Schmidt PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Lucke PA`. Muflchefl
Thus, all amendments meet the requirements of Alt. 123(2) EPC.                                                                     DipI.-Chem. Dr. Ute Kilger PA`. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Malte Nentwig, LL.M. RA. Bremen
II. Two-part form, Rule 43(1) EPC                                                                                                  Dr. Rudolf Backenholt, LL.M. RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Peter GroB, LL.M. RA. Muflchefl` Ahcante
In response to the request for two--paIt form in section 4.1 of Office                                                             Dip|.-|ng. Felix Hermann PA`. Muflchefl
Action 3, 0A3, it is submitted that the subject matter of new claims 1                                                             Dr. ij`m Bahlmann RA. Muflchefl. Frankfurt (200972022)
and 8 relates to a method whose method steps are interrelated with                                                                 DipI.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Kretschmann PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Michael Ruberg, LL.M. RA. Muflchefl` Pans
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschafl mbB - Patentanwélte Rechtsanwélte - AG Bremen-PR 358 HR                                   DipI.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PAfi Dussetdorf
Miinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Diisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Paris - Shanghai                                     Dip|.-|nform. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA`. Muflchefl
Information about data protection and your rights as data subjects:                                                                DipI.-Chem. Dr. Martin Erbacher PA`. Bremen
www.boehmert.com/data-protection                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Hermann PAfi Frankfurt. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebastian Engels RA. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Hofmann PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PA`. Muflchefl

                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PA`. Frankfurt. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Katrin Seibt RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Xia Pfaffenzeller PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Catharina Gb`tz RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Fritz Jetzek PA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyurek PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lars Eggersdorfer RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Yannick Schutt, M.Sc. Inform. PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Simon Comet PA`. Dussetdorf
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA`. Bemn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Robert Bernin PAfi Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Jan Gijring PA`, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flentje PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lennart-Knud Liefeith PA`. Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara Gwinner PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Alexander Thamer RA. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Michael Rubsamen PA`. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Lohse PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Jonas Boschung, M.Sc., M.Sc. PA`. Dussetdorf
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Adrian Steffens PA`. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Melanie Muller RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Giulio Schober PA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Micheline Verwohlt RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Nina Ruoker RA. Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Makiko Maruyama`, M.Sc., Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Théodore Ley`, Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Oleg Lebedev`, Berhn

                                                                                                                                   PA Patentanwan/Patem Attorney *European Patent Attorney
                                                                                                                                   RA Rechtsanwan/Attomey at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   .. Agente de \a Propiedad \ndustnai (Spanien / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Vertretung vordem EU`PO , Marken und Designs
                                                                                                                                   Representation at EU`PO iTrade marks and Designs
                                                   g8 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

each other, while the inventive step concerns changes in several of these interrelated
method steps. Further, the subject matter of claim 12 and 19 relates to a complex
apparatus of functionally inter-related parts, while the inventive step concerns changes
in several of these parts of the apparatus. Therefore, the use of the two-paIt form is
considered to be inappropriate, since it would give a distorted picture of the claimed
invention and would lead to an artificial lack of clarity of the respective claim. Hence, it
is requested to allow the one-paIt form in the present case.

III. Clarity

Under item 3.1 of 0A3, the Examining Division raises a laCk-of-ClaIity objection
regarding the entity responsible for sending the "firstfault tracing detection request
packet". Allegedly, the identity of this entity is not clear. Present claims 1 and 12 now
state that the first fault tracing detection request packet is sent by a previous-hop SFE of
the SFE on the service chain. Thus, the objection is overcome.

In response to the objection under item 3.2 of 0A3, it is again submitted that
independent claims 1, 8, 12 and 19 do not utilize the terms "fault tracing detection" or
"initiating fault detection" individually, but rather define a "first fault tracing detection
request packet" containing a path ID, a "first fault tracing detection response packet"
containing the path ID and ID of the SF node, and a "second fault tracing detection
response packet" containing the path ID and ID of the SFE. Additionally, these claims
make reference to a "device for initiating fault detection" that is connectable to the SFE,
and its relevant technical features. Consequently, the terms "fault tracing detection" and
"initiating fault detection" do not create any lack of clarity concerning the subject matter
of the aforementioned claims.

Under item 3.2.1 of 0A3, the Examining Division argues that the nature of the fault
remains unknown. The applicant respectfully disagrees that this causes a lack of clarity.
The skilled person understands that the faults being detected are any kind of faults that
might occur in the service chain during its operation. Any fault, may it be of any kind, if
detected would lead to achieving the same technical effect if the claimed method is
implemented.

The Examining Division under item 3.2.1 further objects that it is not clear how fault
detection is achieved merely by requesting/sending/obtaining just ID's of one SF node
and one SFE. The applicant respectfully disagrees. It is reiterated that the method of
claim 8 interacts with the method of claim 1 and comprises steps of determining that
forwarding between the SFE node and the SF node is normal and that the forwarding
between the SFE and the device for initiating fault detection is normal. Thus, these

                                                                                                                                                                                  2/4
                                                   g8 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

determinations in combination lead to the result that the forwarding between all devices
(device for initiating fault detection, SFE node, and SF node) is normal.

Furthermore, it is understood that by repeating the same method for all the SF nodes
and SFEs, fault/detecting can be achieved for the entire chain. The skilled person knows
that the SF node in a service chain is responsible for processing the request and the SFE
is responsible for forwarding the request to the next service function in the chain. If there
is a fault in the service chain, it will be reflected in the SF node or SFE, and they will not
be able to either process or forward the request. Thus, the claimed invention provides a
way of determining service chain fault detection.

Under item 3.2.2 of 0A3, the Examining Division raises concerns about the other SF
nodes on the path. Although the claims describe obtaining the ID of only one SF node in
the service chain, it is only for conciseness, and the method can be applied to all SF nodes
in the chain by repeating the process for each node.

Furthermore, the Examining Division apparently considers that fault detection
according to the independent claims is merely determining whether "the ID of one SF
node" obtained in the "fault tracing detection response packet" is included in the
memory of the SFE or not, and further that, at best, this is only one type of fault that is
detected. The applicant respectfully disagrees with this interpretation. It is clear that to
implement normal forwarding of the service packet, a detection device in the network
detects whether the SFE and the SF node can forward the service packet and through the
correct path. If a fault (any kind of fault) occurs, the normal forwarding of the service
packet is affected. Using the path ID and the ID of the SFE, the fault can be traced. The
applicant notes that any fault can be detected and traced through this technique.

Objections under item 3.3 of 0A3 are expected to be overcome after the above
explanation.

Therefore, all claims are clear and meet the requirements of Art. 84 EPC.

IV. Novelty and Inventive Step

The applicant hereby indicates their intention to rely on the arguments concerning
novelty and inventive step that were presented in their previous response.

V. Conclusion

In view of the amendments made and the above explanations, it is believed that the
application is now in a state acceptable for grant. Should the Examining Division,

                                                                                                                                                                                  3/4
                                                   g8 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

nevertheless, still see deficiencies in the documents on file, it is kindly asked to give the
applicant the opportunity to file further arguments and, if necessary, amendments.
Minor issues could be discussed by telephone.
Only as a measure of precaution,

                                             Oral Proceedings
are herewith requested. In this event, it is further requested that the Oral Proceedings be
either held in Munich, or by Videoconference.
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Enclosures:
New claims 1 to 23, clean copy
New claims 1 to 23, marked-up version

                                                                                                                                                                                 4/4
