                                            CLAIMS

    What is claimed is:

         1. A device discovery method, wherein the method comprises:

         displaying, by a first device, a first interface provided by a first application, wherein at least

    one control is displayed in the first interface;

         detecting, by the first device, M second devices, wherein the second device comprises a

    device that is located in a same network as the first device, and/or a device that logs in to a same

    user account as the first device;

         displaying, by the first device, identifiers of N second devices in response to an operation

10 performed on one of the at least one control, wherein the N second devices comprise a second

    device on which a second application is installed in the M second devices, and the second

    application and the first application provide a same resource; and

         detecting, by the first device, a first operation performed on one of the identifiers of the N

    second devices, and invoking a resource of a second device corresponding to the identifier on

15 which the first operation is performed.

         2. The method according to claim 1, wherein

         the N second devices specifically comprise a second device on which a second application of

    preset version is installed in the M second devices; or

         the N second devices specifically comprise a second device on which the second application

2O and an operating system of preset version are installed in the M second devices; or

         the N second devices specifically comprise a second device on which the second application

    is installed in the M second devices and that belongs to a first device type.

         3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein before the detecting, by the first device, M

    second devices, the method flirther comprises: detecting, by the first device, a second operation.

25       4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the displaying, by the first

    device, identifiers of N second devices specifically comprises: displaying, by the first device, a

    second interface provided by the first application, wherein the identifiers of the N second devices

    are displayed in the second interface.

         5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the resource comprises at least

3O one of an image, a service, a capability, and hardware.

         6. The method according to any one ofclaims 1 to 5, wherein the resource comprises an image;

    and

         the invoking a resource of a second device corresponding to the identifier on which the first

    operation is performed specifically comprises:

                                                      37
    displaying a third interface provided by the first application, and displaying, in the third

    interface, an image ofthe second device corresponding to the identifier on which the first operation

    is performed.

    7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the resource is a camera; and

    the invoking a resource of a second device corresponding to the identifier on which the first

    operation is performed specifically comprises:

    displaying a fourth interface provided by the first application, and displaying, in the fourth

    interface, an image that is captured by a camera ofthe second device corresponding to the identifier

    on which the first operation is performed.

10  8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the method further comprises:

    skipping displaying, by the first device, an identifier of a second device on which the second

    application is not installed.

    9. An electronic device, comprising one or more processors and one or more memories,

    wherein the one or more memories are coupled to the one or more processors, the one or more

15 memories are configured to store computer program code, the computer program code comprises

    computer instructions, and when the one or more processors execute the computer instructions,

    the method according to any one of claims 1 to 8 is performed.

    10. A computer program product comprising instructions, wherein when the computer

    program product runs on an electronic device, the electronic device is enabled to perform the

20 method according to any one of claims 1 to 8.

    11. A computer--readable storage medium, comprising instructions, wherein when the

    instructions are run on an electronic device, the method according to any one of claims 1 to 8 is

    performed.

                                                    38
