16-07-2025 - Page 1
Patent Translate
Powered by EPO and Google
Notice
This translation is machine-generated. It cannot be guaranteed that it is intelligible, accurate,
complete, reliable or fit for specific purposes. Critical decisions, such as commercially
relevant or financial decisions, should not be based on machine-translation output.
DESCRIPTION CN104581402A
Interactive control method and electronic device
[0001]
Technical Field
[0002]
The present invention relates to the field of electronic technology, and in particular to an
interactive control method and electronic equipment.
[0003]
Background Art
[0004]
With the continuous development of science and technology, electronic technology has also
developed rapidly. There are more and more types of electronic products, and people have
also enjoyed the various conveniences brought by the development of science and
technology.
Nowadays, people can enjoy a comfortable life brought about by the development of science
and technology through various types of electronic devices.
[0005]
16-07-2025 - Page 2
Existing smart TVs have been used more and more widely, so smart TVs have more and
more functions. For example, users can input content that users need to input into the smart
TV through a remote control, which enables users to interact with the smart TV more
conveniently.
[0006]
However, in the above implementation, if the user needs to interact with the smart terminal,
the user must use a specific electronic device to interact with the smart terminal, which leads
to the technical problem of a single interaction mode of the smart terminal and also leads to
the problem of low convenience of use of the smart terminal.
[0007]
Summary of the invention
[0008]
The present invention provides an interactive control method and an electronic device to
solve the technical problem of a single interactive mode of an intelligent terminal in the prior
art. The specific technical solution is as follows:
[0009]
An interactive control method is applied to a first electronic device, wherein the first
electronic device includes a first display unit, and a first display object corresponding to a
first application is displayed on the first display unit, comprising:
[0010]
When the first application is a preset application, detecting and determining at least one
second electronic device connected to the first electronic device;
[0011]
Determine an i-th second electronic device capable of interacting with the first electronic
device from the at least one second electronic device;
[0012]
16-07-2025 - Page 3
The information of the i-th second electronic device is output to the user, and the i-th second
electronic device is determined as an interactive device that interacts with the first electronic
device, where i is a positive integer.
[0013]
Optionally, before detecting and determining at least one second electronic device
connected to the first electronic device, the method further includes:
[0014]
Detecting and determining whether there is an input area in the first display object;
[0015]
When the input area exists, the step of detecting and determining at least one second
electronic device connected to the first electronic device is performed.
[0016]
Optionally, outputting the information of the i-th second electronic device to the user and
determining the i-th second electronic device as an interactive device for interacting with the
first electronic device includes:
[0017]
Generate a prompt message including the i-th second electronic device identifier;
[0018]
Displaying the generated prompt information on a first display unit of the first electronic
device to prompt a user to select an interactive device to interact with the first electronic
device; or
[0019]
The prompt information is sent to the at least one second electronic device so that the at
least one second electronic device can output the prompt information to the user, and the
user response information returned by the i-th second electronic device based on the
prompt information is received. When the user response information is confirmation
information, the i-th second electronic device is determined as the interactive device.
16-07-2025 - Page 4
[0020]
Optionally, the generating of a prompt message is specifically:
[0021]
Generate a text prompt message and/or a voice prompt message including an identifier of
the i-th second electronic device, wherein the text prompt message and the voice prompt
message are used to prompt the user that the i-th second electronic device is an interactive
device for interacting with the first electronic device.
[0022]
Optionally, after using the i-th second electronic device as an interaction device for
interacting with the first electronic device, the method further includes:
[0023]
receiving input data sent by the i-th second electronic device;
[0024]
The input data is displayed in the input area on the first display sheet.
[0025]
An electronic device, comprising:
[0026]
A display screen, used to display a first display object corresponding to the first application;
[0027]
A processor is connected to the display screen and is used to detect and determine at least
one second electronic device connected to the first electronic device when the first
application is a preset application, determine the i-th second electronic device that can
interact with the first electronic device from the at least one second electronic device, output
information of the i-th second electronic device to a user, and determine the i-th second
electronic device as an interactive device that interacts with the first electronic device.
[0028]
16-07-2025 - Page 5
Optionally, the processor is further configured to detect and determine whether an input
area exists in the first display object, and when the input area exists, perform the step of:
detecting and determining at least one second electronic device connected to the first
electronic device.
[0029]
Optionally, the processor is further used to generate a prompt message including an
identification of the i-th second electronic device, and display the generated prompt
message on a first display unit of the first electronic device to prompt a user to select an
interactive device for interacting with the first electronic device; or send the prompt message
to the at least one second electronic device so that the at least one second electronic device
can output the prompt message to the user, receive user response information returned by
the i-th second electronic device based on the prompt message, and when the user response
information is confirmation information, determine the i-th second electronic device as the
interactive device.
[0030]
Optionally, the processor is further used to receive input data sent by the i-th second
electronic device, and display the input data in the input area on the display unit.
[0031]
One or more embodiments provided by the present invention have at least the following
technical effects or advantages:
[0032]
In the above embodiment, the first electronic device detects that the currently running first
application is a preset application. When the first application is the preset application, it
detects and determines at least one second electronic device connected to the first electronic
device; determines the i-th second electronic device that can interact with the first electronic
device from the at least one second electronic device; outputs the information of the i-th
second electronic device to the user, and determines the i-th second electronic device as an
interactive device that interacts with the first electronic device.
This prompts the user to use the terminal device for interaction, thereby increasing the
interactive modes of the first electronic device and correspondingly increasing the
convenience of input through the smart terminal, reducing the user's operations and
improving the user's experience.
16-07-2025 - Page 6
[0033]
In addition, in the embodiment of the present invention, the first electronic device can
receive input data entered by the user on the smart terminal, and after parsing the input
data, display the corresponding input data in the corresponding display area. Therefore, in
the embodiment of the present invention, the user can select the input method in the
terminal, which facilitates the user's operation and improves the input efficiency.
[0034]
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0035]
FIG1 is a flow chart of an interactive control method according to an embodiment of the
present invention;
[0036]
FIG2 is a schematic diagram of a display interface of a smart TV according to an embodiment
of the present invention;
[0037]
FIG3 is a schematic diagram of a display interface of a smart terminal according to an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0038]
FIG4 is a schematic diagram of a smart TV input interface according to an embodiment of the
present invention;
[0039]
FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram showing a specific structure of an electronic device according
to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0040]
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0041]
16-07-2025 - Page 7
The present invention provides an interactive control method and an electronic device. The
method is applied to a first electronic device, the first electronic device includes a first display
unit, and a first display object corresponding to a first application is displayed on the first
display unit. The method specifically includes: when the first application is a preset
application, detecting and determining at least one second electronic device connected to
the first electronic device, determining the i-th second electronic device that matches the
current state from the at least one second electronic device, outputting information of the i-
th second electronic device to a user, and using the i-th second electronic device as an
interactive device for interacting with the first electronic device, where i is a positive integer.
[0042]
Simply put, if a user needs to interact with a smart terminal, the smart terminal will
automatically detect whether there is an electronic device that can interact with the smart
terminal in a preset area. When there is an electronic device that can interact with the smart
terminal, the user can directly use the electronic device to interact with the smart terminal.
This avoids the problem that the user can only use a user-specific device to interact with the
smart terminal, and increases the interaction methods between the user and the smart
terminal, making the interaction between the user and the smart terminal more convenient.
[0043]
The technical solution of the present invention is described in detail below through the
accompanying drawings and specific embodiments. It should be understood that the
embodiments of the present invention and the specific technical features in the
embodiments are only detailed descriptions of the technical solution of the present
invention, but not limitations of the technical solution of the present invention. In the
absence of conflict, the embodiments of the present invention and the specific technical
features in the embodiments can be combined with each other.
[0044]
FIG1 is a flow chart of an interactive control method according to an embodiment of the
present invention, the method comprising:
[0045]
Step 101: When the first application is a preset application, at least one second electronic
device connected to the first electronic device is detected and determined.
16-07-2025 - Page 8
[0046]
Step 102: Determine an i-th second electronic device that can interact with the first electronic
device from at least one second electronic device.
[0047]
Step 103: output the information of the i-th second electronic device to the user, and
determine the i-th second electronic device as an interactive device for interacting with the
first electronic device.
[0048]
First of all, the interactive control method in the embodiment of the present invention is
applied to a first electronic device, which includes a first display unit, on which a first display
object corresponding to a first application is displayed.
[0049]
In addition, before executing step 101, the first electronic device will detect whether there is
an input area in the first display object displayed on the first display unit. When there is an
input area, the first electronic device will detect and determine at least one second electronic
device for input.
[0050]
Specifically, as shown in FIG2 , a web page is displayed on the smart TV in FIG2 , and then the
smart TV will detect whether there is an input area in the web page where the user needs to
input. Obviously, there is an input area in the web page, in which the user can input the data
content that the user needs to input. At this time, the smart TV will detect and determine at
least one second electronic device, and the user can input data content to the smart TV
through the second electronic device.
[0051]
Therefore, in an embodiment of the present invention, the first electronic device may also
detect and determine whether the first application is a preset application in the preset
application list. If the first application is a preset application, at least one second electronic
device connected to the first electronic device is detected and determined.
[0052]
16-07-2025 - Page 9
Specifically, since the first electronic device is an electronic device that can interact with the
user, the first electronic device will determine whether it needs to interact with the user, and
then a preset list is saved in the first electronic device, namely: a preset application list. The
preset application list saves the applications installed in the first electronic device, such as
QQ, Weibo, WeChat and other applications. The applications in the above examples are all
interactive applications. As long as they are instant messaging applications, they can be
added to the preset application list. Of course, users can add corresponding applications to
the preset application list according to their own needs.
[0053]
When it is determined that the first application is any one of QQ, Weibo or WeChat, the first
electronic device will determine that interaction with the user is required, and at this time
the first electronic device will detect and determine at least one second electronic device
connected to the first electronic device.
[0054]
Then, an i-th second electronic device capable of interacting with the first electronic device is
determined from the at least one second electronic device.
That is, it is determined whether each second electronic device has an input device and
corresponding software that can interact with the first electronic device.
Then, an i-th second electronic device is selected from multiple second electronic devices
that can interact with the first electronic device.
[0055]
Finally, the information of the i-th second electronic device is output to the user, and the i-th
second electronic device is determined as an interactive device that interacts with the first
electronic device.
[0056]
In actual applications, the first electronic device will first turn on the function of the detection
device, and then the first electronic device will first detect whether there is a terminal device
that can be connected within the preset area, such as a smart phone, tablet computer, smart
remote control and other terminal devices. If the first electronic device detects that there is a
terminal device that can be connected to the first electronic device within the preset area,
16-07-2025 - Page 10
the first electronic device will obtain the identification information of the detected terminal
device, and then the first electronic device will save the identification information of the
currently detected terminal device.
[0057]
For example, the first electronic device is a smart TV. When the smart TV detects that the
currently running application is a preset application or that there is an input area in the
currently running application, the smart TV will detect whether there are terminal devices
such as smart phones and tablet computers within a preset distance range. When it is
detected that multiple terminal devices are connected to the smart TV, the smart TV will
obtain identification information of the mobile phone and the tablet computer and save the
obtained identification information, wherein the identification information is used to identify
the detected terminal device.
[0058]
In addition, if the first electronic device is in a network, the first electronic device will detect
whether there are terminal devices in the same network. When there are terminal devices in
the same network as the first electronic device, the first electronic device will obtain
identification information of these terminal devices, and the obtained identification
information is stored in the first electronic device.
[0059]
For example, the first electronic device is a smart TV, which is in a home wireless network,
such as a WI-FI network. At this time, the smart TV will detect terminal devices in the wireless
network. At this time, when the terminal devices in the wireless network include terminal
devices such as smart phones and tablet computers, the smart TV will obtain identification
information of the terminal devices such as smart phones and tablet computers, and the
smart TV will save the obtained identification information in the smart TV.
[0060]
Of course, in addition to the above-mentioned implementation methods, the first electronic
device can also detect whether there are terminal devices with the same operating system as
the first electronic device currently running within the preset area. For example, if the first
electronic device runs the Android operating system, the first electronic device will detect
whether there are terminal devices with the Android operating system within the preset
area. If there are terminal devices with the Android operating system, the first electronic
16-07-2025 - Page 11
device will obtain the identification information of these terminal devices and save the
corresponding identification information in the first electronic device.
[0061]
After the first electronic device obtains the terminal device identification information within
the preset area, it selects a terminal device from these terminal devices that can interact with
the first electronic device.
Finally, the identification information of the terminal device is output to the user and is
determined as an interactive device that interacts with the first electronic device.
[0062]
For example, the first electronic device may generate a first prompt message, which may be
displayed on the first display unit of the first electronic device, thereby prompting the user to
use the matched second electronic device for interaction, or the first electronic device may
send the prompt message to at least one detected second electronic device, and the first
electronic device may send a prompt message to all determined terminal devices, wherein
the prompt message is used to prompt the user to confirm whether the terminal device
needs to be used for interaction.
[0063]
In addition, the prompt information is text prompt information and/or voice prompt
information, wherein the text prompt information and the voice prompt information are
used to prompt the user that the i-th second electronic device is an interactive device that
interacts with the first electronic device, that is, according to the voice prompt information,
the second electronic device will output the corresponding voice prompt information,
thereby prompting the user to confirm.
[0064]
After all terminal devices receive the prompt information, the first electronic device will
detect in real time whether it has received the response information returned by the
terminal device. When the first electronic device receives the response information returned
by the i-th second electronic device based on the prompt information, the first electronic
device will use the i-th second electronic device as an interactive device based on the
response information.
[0065]
16-07-2025 - Page 12
Specifically, the first electronic device is described as a smart TV. After the smart TV obtains
the identification information of the mobile phone terminal, it will generate text prompt
information, and the smart TV will send the text prompt information to the mobile phone
terminal. Then the mobile phone terminal will display the interactive interface shown in
Figure 3. Of course, as long as it is a terminal device detected by the smart TV, a
corresponding interactive interface will be generated. After the interactive interface is
displayed on the mobile phone terminal, the user can perform corresponding selection
operations on the interactive interface, and then the mobile phone will generate
corresponding response information. The smart TV will receive the response information
generated on the mobile phone terminal and determine whether the user selects "Confirm"
or "Cancel" according to the response information. If the user selects "Cancel", the mobile
phone terminal will not serve as an interactive device. If the user selects "Confirm", the smart
TV will determine that the mobile phone terminal is an interactive device, establish a
connection with the mobile phone terminal, and receive the data content sent by the mobile
phone terminal in real time.
[0066]
After the connection is established, the i-th second electronic device will first display an input
interface, through which the user can input the content to be input, and then the first
electronic device will receive the input data sent by the i-th second electronic device in real
time, and then parse the input data, and then display the input data in the input area on the
first display unit.
[0067]
For example, the first electronic device is a smart TV, as shown in FIG2 . In FIG2 , there is an
input area in the display interface of the smart TV. At this time, the smart TV is connected to
the smart phone in FIG3 . At this time, the user can enter the content that the user needs to
search in the input interface of the smart phone. For example, the user enters “today’s
news”. At this time, the smart TV will receive the data content entered by the user in the
smart phone, and then the smart TV will parse the data content and display the parsed data
content in the input area. The specific display result is shown in FIG4 .
[0068]
Of course, the display process on the smart TV is synchronized with the user's input process,
which makes it easy for the user to check whether the input content is accurate.
[0069]
16-07-2025 - Page 13
In the above embodiment, when the smart TV detects that the currently running program is
a preset application program, or there is an input area in the current display object, the
smart TV will actively detect whether there is an interactive terminal device in the preset area
of the smart TV. When there is a terminal device, a prompt message will be generated and
sent to the terminal device to prompt the user to use the terminal device for interaction. In
this way, the interactive modes of the smart TV are increased, and the convenience of input
through the smart terminal is correspondingly increased, which reduces the user's
operations and improves the user experience.
[0070]
In addition, in the embodiment of the present invention, the smart TV can receive input data
input by the user on the smart terminal, and after parsing the input data, display the
corresponding input data in the corresponding display area. Therefore, in the embodiment
of the present invention, the user can select the input method in the terminal, which
facilitates the user's operation and improves the input efficiency.
[0071]
In addition, the present invention further provides an embodiment, in which a smart TV is
still used for explanation. For example, a smart TV in the prior art has a smart remote
controller, through which a user can interact with the smart TV, that is, a user can input
corresponding content into the smart TV through the smart remote controller, but the input
method on the remote controller is single and the input operation process is complicated.
Therefore, in an embodiment of the present invention, a "shortcut key" is provided on the
smart remote controller. When the "shortcut key" is turned on, the smart TV will search
whether there is a smart terminal within a preset area. When a smart terminal exists, the
smart TV will directly establish a connection with the smart terminal, receive the data content
input by the smart terminal, and then display the data content in the corresponding input
area.
[0072]
It should be emphasized that the method of inputting data content and subsequently
displaying data in this embodiment is exactly the same as the implementation method in the
previous embodiment, and will not be repeated here.
[0073]
16-07-2025 - Page 14
Corresponding to an interactive control method in an embodiment of the present invention,
a terminal device is also provided in an embodiment of the present invention. FIG5 is a
schematic diagram of a specific structure of an electronic device in an embodiment of the
present invention. The electronic device includes:
[0074]
Display screen 501, used to display a first display object corresponding to a first application
program;
[0075]
The processor 502 is connected to the display screen 501, and is used to detect and
determine at least one second electronic device connected to the first electronic device when
the first application is a preset application, determine the i-th second electronic device that
can interact with the first electronic device from the at least one second electronic device,
output information of the i-th second electronic device to the user, and determine the i-th
second electronic device as an interactive device that interacts with the first electronic
device.
[0076]
Furthermore, the processor 502 is further configured to detect whether there is an input
area in the first display object, and when the input area exists, perform the step of: detecting
and determining at least one second electronic device connected to the first electronic
device.
[0077]
Furthermore, the processor 502 is also used to generate a prompt message including an
identification of the i-th second electronic device, and display the generated prompt
message on the first display unit of the first electronic device to prompt the user to select an
interactive device for interacting with the first electronic device; or send the prompt message
to the at least one second electronic device so that the at least one second electronic device
can output the prompt message to the user, receive user response information returned by
the i-th second electronic device based on the prompt message, and when the user response
information is confirmation information, determine the i-th second electronic device as the
interactive device.
[0078]
16-07-2025 - Page 15
Furthermore, the processor 502 is also used to receive input data sent by the i-th second
electronic device, and display the input data in the input area on the display unit.
[0079]
One or more embodiments provided by the present invention have at least the following
technical effects or advantages:
[0080]
In the above embodiment, the first electronic device detects that the currently running first
application is a preset application. When the first application is the preset application, it
detects and determines at least one second electronic device connected to the first electronic
device; determines the i-th second electronic device that can interact with the first electronic
device from the at least one second electronic device; outputs the information of the i-th
second electronic device to the user, and determines the i-th second electronic device as an
interactive device that interacts with the first electronic device.
This prompts the user to use the terminal device for interaction, thereby increasing the
interactive modes of the first electronic device and correspondingly increasing the
convenience of input through the smart terminal, reducing the user's operations and
improving the user's experience.
[0081]
In addition, in the embodiment of the present invention, the first electronic device can
receive input data entered by the user on the smart terminal, and after parsing the input
data, display the corresponding input data in the corresponding display area. Therefore, in
the embodiment of the present invention, the user can select the input method in the
terminal, which facilitates the user's operation and improves the input efficiency.
[0082]
Those skilled in the art should appreciate that the embodiments of the present invention
may be provided as a method, a system or a computer program product.
Accordingly, the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment,
an entirely software embodiment, or an embodiment combining software and hardware
aspects.
Moreover, the present invention may take the form of a computer program product
implemented on one or more computer-usable storage media (including but not limited to
disk storage, CD-ROM, optical storage, etc.) containing computer-usable program codes.
16-07-2025 - Page 16
[0083]
The present invention is described with reference to flowcharts and/or block diagrams of
methods, apparatus (systems), and computer program products according to embodiments
of the invention.
It should be understood that each process and/or block in the flowchart and/or block
diagram, and a combination of the processes and/or blocks in the flowchart and/or block
diagram can be implemented by computer program instructions.
These computer program instructions can be provided to a processor of a general-purpose
computer, a special-purpose computer, an embedded processing machine or other
programmable data processing device to produce a machine, so that the instructions
executed by the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing device
produce a device for implementing the functions specified in one or more processes in the
flowchart and/or one or more boxes in the block diagram.
[0084]
These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable memory
that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing device to operate in a
specific manner, so that the instructions stored in the computer-readable memory produce a
product including an instruction device that implements the functions specified in one or
more processes in the flowchart and/or one or more boxes in the block diagram.
[0085]
These computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other
programmable data processing device so that a series of operational steps are executed on
the computer or other programmable device to produce a computer-implemented process,
whereby the instructions executed on the computer or other programmable device provide
steps for implementing the functions specified in one or more processes in the flowchart and
/or one or more boxes in the block diagram.
[0086]
Obviously, those skilled in the art can make various changes and modifications to the
present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
Thus, if these modifications and variations of the present invention fall within the scope of
the claims of the present invention and their equivalents, the present invention is intended
to include these modifications and variations.
16-07-2025 - Page 1
Patent Translate
Powered by EPO and Google
Notice
This translation is machine-generated. It cannot be guaranteed that it is intelligible, accurate,
complete, reliable or fit for specific purposes. Critical decisions, such as commercially
relevant or financial decisions, should not be based on machine-translation output.
CLAIMS CN104581402A
1.
An interactive control method is applied to a first electronic device, wherein the first
electronic device includes a first display unit, and a first display object corresponding to a
first application is displayed on the first display unit, characterized by comprising:
When the first application is a preset application, detecting and determining at least one
second electronic device connected to the first electronic device;
Determine an i-th second electronic device capable of interacting with the first electronic
device from the at least one second electronic device;
The information of the i-th second electronic device is output to the user, and the i-th second
electronic device is determined as an interactive device that interacts with the first electronic
device, where i is a positive integer.
2.
The method according to claim 1, characterized in that before detecting and determining at
least one second electronic device connected to the first electronic device, it also includes:
Detecting and determining whether there is an input area in the first display object;
When the input area exists, the step of detecting and determining at least one second
electronic device connected to the first electronic device is performed.
3.
16-07-2025 - Page 2
The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of outputting information of the i-th
second electronic device to the user and determining the i-th second electronic device as an
interactive device for interacting with the first electronic device comprises:
Generate a prompt message including the i-th second electronic device identifier;
Displaying the generated prompt information on a first display unit of the first electronic
device to prompt a user to select an interactive device to interact with the first electronic
device; or
The prompt information is sent to the at least one second electronic device so that the at
least one second electronic device can output the prompt information to the user, and the
user response information returned by the i-th second electronic device based on the
prompt information is received. When the user response information is confirmation
information, the i-th second electronic device is determined as the interactive device.
4.
The method according to claim 3, characterized in that the generating of a prompt message
specifically comprises:
Generate a text prompt message and/or a voice prompt message including the i-th second
electronic device identifier.
5.
The method according to claim 1, characterized in that after the i-th second electronic device
is used as an interaction device for interacting with the first electronic device, the method
further comprises:
receiving input data sent by the i-th second electronic device;
The input data is displayed in the input area on the first display sheet.
6.
An electronic device, characterized in that the electronic device comprises:
A display screen, used to display a first display object corresponding to the first application;
A processor is connected to the display screen and is used to detect and determine at least
one second electronic device connected to the first electronic device when the first
application is a preset application, determine the i-th second electronic device that can
interact with the first electronic device from the at least one second electronic device, output
information of the i-th second electronic device to a user, and determine the i-th second
electronic device as an interactive device that interacts with the first electronic device.
7.
16-07-2025 - Page 3
The electronic device as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the processor is further
used to detect whether there is an input area in the first display object, and when the input
area exists, perform the step of: detecting and determining at least one second electronic
device connected to the first electronic device.
8.
The electronic device as described in claim 6 is characterized in that the processor is also
used to generate a prompt message including an identification of the i-th second electronic
device, and display the generated prompt message on the first display unit of the first
electronic device to prompt a user to select an interactive device to interact with the first
electronic device; or send the prompt message to the at least one second electronic device
so that the at least one second electronic device can output the prompt message to the user,
receive user response information returned by the i-th second electronic device based on the
prompt message, and when the user response information is confirmation information,
determine the i-th second electronic device as the interactive device.
9.
The electronic device as claimed in claim 7 is characterized in that the processor is also used
to receive input data sent by the i-th second electronic device, and display the input data in
the input area on the display unit.
