                         AMENDED CLAIMS MARKED VERSION

    What is claimed is:

    1. A coding method, applied to a first communications device, wherein the method comprises:

    obtaining a first information bit sequence;

5   determining a first frozen bit sequence based on a probability distribution value P1 of the

    first information bit sequence;

    determining a check bit sequence based on a second information bit sequence, wherein the

    second information bit sequence is the first information bit sequence or a sequence obtained after

    a pre-transformation operation is performed on the first information bit sequence;

10  obtaining a first bit sequence based on the second information bit sequence, the check bit

    sequence, and the first frozen bit sequence, wherein the first bit sequence comprises bits in the

    second information bit sequence, bits in the check bit sequence, and bits in the first frozen bit

    sequence;

    performing polar coding on the first bit sequence to obtain a second bit sequence; and

15  outputting the second bit sequence.

    2. The method according to claim 1, wherein

    if the probability distribution value P1 is not equiprobable distribution, the second

    information bit sequence is the sequence obtained after the pre-transformation operation is

    performed on the first information bit sequence; or

20  if the probability distribution value P1 is equiprobable distribution, the second information

    bit sequence is the first information bit sequence.

    3. The method according to claim 2, wherein if |P1 - 0.5| SE, the probability distribution

    value P1 is equiprobable distribution, wherein  is a preset value.

             4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein check bit locations in the first
25 bit sequence are bit locations corresponding to rows whose sums are 1 in G(a), G(a) is a matrix

      consisting of rows and columns in a set a in a polar matrix G, the polar matrix G is a polar matrix

    used for the polar coding, the set a is an information bit set, and the information bit set comprises

    information bit locations and the check bit locations in the first bit sequence.

            5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least one check bit in the
30 check bit sequence is located in the bits comprised in the second information bit sequence.

    6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the determining a first frozen

    bit sequence based on a probability distribution value P1 of the first information bit sequence

    comprises:

                                                 1
    selecting a probability distribution value Po in a probability distribution value set P based

    on the probability distribution value P1 of the first information bit sequence, wherein the

    probability distribution value Po is a probability distribution value closest to the probability

     distribution value P1 in the probability distribution value set P, and one probability distribution

5 value in the probability distribution value set P corresponds to one frozen bit sequence mapping

    manner; and

    determining the first frozen bit sequence based on a frozen bit sequence mapping manner

    corresponding to the probability distribution value Po.

    7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the first frozen bit sequence is determined based

10 on a basic sequence corresponding to the probability distribution value Po, and the basic sequence
       is determined based on a quantity of probability distribution values comprised in the probability

    distribution value set P.

    8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the first frozen bit sequence is determined based

    on an m-sequence, a Gold sequence, or a pseudo-random sequence corresponding to the

15 probability distribution value Po.

         9. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the method further comprises:
         sending a probability distribution reference value range or a probability distribution reference
    value to a second communications device every N information bit sequences, wherein N is an

    integer greater than 1.

20  10. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the check bits comprise cyclic

    redundancy check CRC bits and/or parity check PC bits.

    11. A decoding method, applied to a second communications device, wherein the method

    comprises:

    step 1: obtaining a to-be-decoded sequence;

25  step 2: setting i=1;

    step 3: decoding the to-be-decoded sequence based on an ith probability distribution value in

    a probability distribution value set P and a frozen bit sequence corresponding to the ith probability

       distribution value, to obtain a third bit sequence corresponding to the ith probability distribution
       value, wherein the third bit sequence comprises bits in a third information bit sequence, check bits,
30 and bits in the frozen bit sequence corresponding to the ith probability distribution value;

    step 4: checking the third information bit sequence;

    step 5: if the check on the third information bit sequence succeeds, obtaining a first

    information bit sequence based on the third information bit sequence, and stopping decoding,

    wherein the first information bit sequence is the third information bit sequence or the first

35 information bit sequence is a sequence obtained after polar coding is performed on the third

                                       2
    information bit sequence;

    step 6: if the check on the third information bit sequence fails and i is less than x, setting

    i=i+1, and returning to step 3, wherein x is a quantity of probability distribution values comprised

    in the probability distribution value set P; and

5   step 7: if the check on the third information bit sequence fails and i is equal to x:

    stopping decoding; or

    obtaining a fourth information bit sequence based on a target information bit sequence, and

    stopping decoding, wherein the target information bit sequence is one of x third information bit

    sequences corresponding to the probability distribution value set P, and the fourth information bit

10 sequence is the target information bit sequence or a sequence obtained after polar coding is

    performed on the target information bit sequence.

    12. The method according to claim 11, wherein

    if the ith probability distribution value is not equiprobable distribution, the first information

    bit sequence is the sequence obtained after polar coding is performed on the third information bit

15 sequence; or

    if the ith probability distribution value is equiprobable distribution, the first information bit

    sequence is the third information bit sequence.

    13. The method according to claim 12, wherein if Pi,r - 0.5|E, the ith probability

    distribution value is equiprobable distribution, wherein E is a preset value, and Pir is the ith

20 probability distribution value.

    14. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein a decoding order of

    probability distribution values in the probability distribution value set P is determined based on

    information entropies corresponding to the probability distribution values in the probability

    distribution value set P.

25  15. The method according to claim 14, wherein an information entropy corresponding to the

    ith probability distribution value is greater than or equal to an information entropy corresponding

    to an (i+1)th probability distribution value.

    16. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein a decoding order of

    probability distribution values in the probability distribution value set P is determined based on

30 historical probability distribution values of a transmitting-end.

    17. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the method further

        comprises:
             receiving a probability distribution reference value range or a probability distribution

       reference value sent by a first communications device every N information bit sequences, wherein
35 Nis an integer greater than 1, wherein

                                                      3
    a decoding order of probability distribution values in the probability distribution value-set s

    is-determined based on the probability distribution reference value range of the probability

    distribution reference value.

    18. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein the target information bit

5 sequence is a third information bit sequence corresponding to equiprobable distribution in the

    probability distribution value set-P.

    19. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 18, wherein check bit locations in the

    third bit sequence are bit locations corresponding to rows whose sums are 1 in G(a), G(a) is-a

      matrix consisting of rows and columns in a set a in a polar matrix G, the polar matrix G is a polar
10 matrix used for the polar coding, the set a is an information bit set, and the information bit set

    comprises information bit locations and the check bit locations in the third bit sequence.

    20. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 19, wherein at least one of the check

    bits is located in the bits comprised in the third information bit sequence.

    21. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 20, wherein one probability distribution

15 value in the probability distribution value set P corresponds to one frozen bit sequence mapping

    manner, and the method further comprises:

    determining, based on a frozen bit sequence mapping manner corresponding to the ++

    probability distribution value, the frozen bit sequence corresponding to the i- probability

    distribution value.

20  22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the frozen bit sequence corresponding to the

    i probability distribution value is determined based on a basic sequence corresponding to the

    probability distribution value, and the basic sequence is determined based on the quantity of

    probability distribution values comprised in the probability distribution value-set P.

            23. The method according to claim 21, wherein the frozen bit sequence corresponding to the
25 i probability distribution value is determined based on an m sequence, a Gold sequence, or a

    pseudo-random sequence corresponding to the probability distribution value.

    24. The method according to any one of claims 11 to 23, wherein the check bits comprise

    cyclic redundancy check CRC bits and/or parity check PC bits.

    25. A communications apparatus, comprising units configured to perform the method

30 according to any one of claims 1 to 10, or comprising units configured to perform the method

    according to any one of claims 11-t0-24.

                                               4
    26. A communications apparatus, comprising a processor and a memory wherein the

    processor is coupled to the memory, and the processor is configured to implement the method

    according to any one of claims 1 to 10 or the processor is configured to implement the method

    according to any one of claims 11 to 24.

5   27. A chip, comprising a processor and an interface, wherein the processor is coupled to the

    interface; and

    the interface is configured to receive or output a signal, and the processor is configured to

    execute-code instructions, to enable the method according to any one of claims 1 to 10 to be

    performed, or to enable the method according to any one of claims 11 to 24 to be performed.

10  28. A computer readable storage medium, wherein the computer readable storage-medium

    stores-computer executable instructions, and when the computer executable instructions are

    invoked by a computer, the computer is enabled to perform the method according to any one of

    claims 1 to 10, or when the computer executable instructions are invoked by a computer, the

    computer is enabled to perform the method according to any one of claims 11-to-24.

15  29. A computer program product, wherein the computer program product comprises computer

    program code, and when the computer program code is run by a computer, the computer is enabled

    to perform the method according to any one of claims 1 to 10 or the computer is enabled to perform

    the method according to any one of claims 11 40-24.

    30. A communications system, comprising the first communications device that performs the

20 method according to any one of claims 1 to 10 and the second communications device that

    performs the method according to any one of claims 14 to 24.

                                              5
