                                                       EP0 .4M5unlch               6%

                                             ' 1 5. luni 2039                  BARDEHLE
                                                                               PAGENBERG
Patent- und Rechtsanwalte - Postfach 86 06 20 - 81633 Mfinchen                 DOST
                                                                               ALTENBUHG
European Patent Office                                                         GEISSLEFl
80298 Mfinchen

Munich, June 16, 2009                                                          Johannes Lang
                                                                               Galileiplatz 1
EP 06 846 405.6                                                                81679 Mfinchen

Apple Inc.                                                                     Tel. +49 (89) 92 80 5-0
                                                                               Dir. +49 (89) 92 80 5-153
                                                                               Fax +49 (89) 92 80 5--444
                                                                               johannes.lang@bardehle.de
                                                                               www.bardehle.com

Our ref:    A115422WOEP JLa/le/bb

Responsive to the Communication dated March 25, 2009

                                      I. Amendments                            MUNCHEN
                                                                               DUSSELDORF
1.1 Applicant submits, without prejudice, a new set of claims 1 to 18 as       PARIS
         the basis for the further proceedings and to replace the claims cur-  BARCELONA
         rently on file.                                                       ALICANTE

1.2. In order to address the issue related to Art. 123(2) EPC, raised in
         points 2.1 and 2.2 of the Communication, where appropriate in all
         claims the feature "electronic device" was amended to now read
          "Qortable electronic device".

         Also reference signs have been added to all claims where appropriate
         and the new independent claims 1 and 6 have been brought into two-
                                                fie

                                                                                                                                         BARDEHLE
                                                                                                                                         PAGENBERG
                                                                                                                                         DOST
                                                                                                                                         ALTENBURG
                                                                                                                                         GEISSLER

         part form. For new independent claim 18, which refers back to claims 1
        to 5, a two-part form was not considered to be appropriate, since the
         characterizing portions of claim 18 are included in claims 1 to 5.

1.3 New method claim 1 is based on previous claim 1. In order to address
         the clarity issues raised in point 5.2 of the Communication claim 1 has
         been amended as suggested by the examiner and is now directed to "a
         computer implemented method Ofcontrolling a portable electronic de-
         vice comprising a touch-sensitive display, comprising ...".

         New dependent method claims 2 to 5 are based on previous independ-
         ent claims 8, 12, 14 and 16 respectively and have been amended by
         turning them into claims depending from new claim 1 and by conse-
         quently deleting redundant features already included in new claim 1.

         New independent apparatus claim 6 is based on previous claim 2.

         New dependent apparatus claims 7 to 17 are based on previous claims 3
         to 7, 9 to 11, 13, 15 and 17 respectively and have been amended by
         turning them into claims depending (directly or indirectly) from new
         claim 6 and by consequently deleting redundant features already in-
          cluded in new claim 6.

         New independent apparatus claim 18 is based on previous claim 20 and
         has been amended by adjusting the claim reference to new claim num-
         bering.
1.4 Therefore applicant believes the subject matter of new claims 1 to 18
         satisfies the requirements of Art. 84 and Art.123(2) EPC.
                                                                                      4%

                                                                                    BARDEHLE
                                                                                    PAGENBERG
                                                                                    DOST
                                                                                    ALTENBURG
                                                                                    GEISSLER

II. Novelty

2.1 Applicant agrees with the examiner that the previous claims were al-
         ready novel in View of the cited prior art D1 to D4. Consequently, also
         the new independent claims 1 to 18 which contain the same features as
         previous independent claims 1, 2 and 20 respectively are novel.

2.2 Since all remaining new dependent claims 2 to 5 and 7 to 17 are directly
         or indirectly depending from either claim 1 or claim 6 and include all of
         their respective features they are therefore also novel.

                                      III. Inventive step

3.1 In agreement with the examiner Document D1 is considered to present
         the closest prior art.

         D1 discloses a method of deactivating a touch screen look in a portable
         electronic device, comprising detecting touches on predetermined con-
         tact areas on the touch screen in a given order during touch screen lock
         and deactivating the touch screen lock once said touches on said prede-
         termined contact areas are detected. Further in certain embodiments of
         D1 outlines of the contact areas or background images for facilitating
         the remembering of the predetermined contact areas may be displayed
          on the touch screen.

         The difference between reference D1 and the invention of new claim 1,
         however, is at least the method step "moving an unlock image along a
         predefined displayed path on the touch-sensz'tive display in accordance
                                                fie

                                                                                                                                         BARDEHLE
                                                                                                                                         PAGENBERG
                                                                                                                                         DOST
                                                                                                                                         ALTENBURG
                                                                                                                                         GEISSLER

         with the contact, wherein the unlock image is a graphical, interactive
         user-interface object with which a user interacts in order to unlock the
          device" of new claim 1.

          D1 neither discloses:

         (a) the use of m unlock image being moved (whether or not the
                   unlock image is a graphical, interactive user-interface object
                   with which a user interacts in order to unlock the device);

         (b) nor moving an unlock image respectively the contact along a
                   displayed path on the touch-screen display.

         Rather, D1 is directed to an unlocking method which is secured in that a
         specific predetermined sequence of contacts has to be input in order to
         unlock the device. The sequence of contacts is therefore kept secret and
         not made Visible on the screen. Also in those embodiments of D1,
         where outlines or background images are shown to support the user in
         remembering the secret sequence and touching the contact areas, only
         the position of these contact areas is displayed, the order in which they
         have to be contacted and thus (for a gliding motion) the path leading to
         an unlocking to the device, however, are not displayed.

3.2 These differences lead to a number of drawbacks of the solution of D1.
         Particularly, the sequence of contact touches may be hard to perform,
         creating, memorizing and recalling the secret sequence or path can be
         quite burdensome. These drawbacks may reduce the ease of use of the
         unlocking process and, as a consequence, the ease of use of the device
         in general.
                                                6%

                                                                                                                                         BARDEHLE
                                                                                                                                         PAGENBEHG
                                                                                                                                         DOST
                                                                                                                                         ALTENBUHG
                                                                                                                                         GEISSLER

         The objective problem solved by the present invention is therefore to
         provide more efficient, user friendly procedures for unlocking portable
         electronic devices, touch screens or applications and to provide a sen-
         sory feedback to the user regarding progress towards satisfaction of a
         user input condition that is required for the unlocking to occur.

         The solution to this problem, i.e. a method comprising moving an
         unlock image along a predefined displayed path on the touch-sensitz've
         display in accordance with the contact, wherein the unlock image is a
         graphical, interactive user-interface object with which a user interacts
         in order to unlock the device, is set out in claim 1.

         In particular the unlock image signals to the user that the device is
         locked and at the same time indicates the contact point a user has to
         touch in order to start moving the unlock image for unlocking the de-
         vice. The displayed path clearly indicates to the user how and where the
         unlock image has to be moved and the current position of the unlock
         images provides feedback to the user about the progress already made
         towards satisfaction of a user input condition that is required for the
         unlocking to occur.

3.3 D1 itself provides no hint at the form of the modification which might
         be required to solve this problem.

         Applicant respectfully submits that the differentiating features identi-
         fied in section 3.1 above are also not rendered obvious by combining
          D1 with Document D2:
                                            Q

                                                                                                                              BARDEHLE
                                                                                                                              PAGENBERG
                                                                                                                              DOST
                                                                                                                              ALTENBURG
                                                                                                                              GE|SSLER

Regarding feature (a) of new claim 1 as defined above, the user-
interface unlocked state of the device of the present invention is in its
normal operating state, detecting and responding to user input corre-
sponding to interaction with the user interface. The unlocked device de-
tects and responds to contact corresponding to activation or deactivation
of function s through the screen (cf par. [0051] ofthe description).

In contrast D2 discloses "Computer users access and/or execute a se-
lected restrictedfunction on a computer using a graphical user inter-
face by entering an iconic password that is defined by selecting two or
more visual icons, called code icons, in a sequence called an iconic
password sequence" (cf. D2, abstract).

In D2 the computer is already in the user-interface unlock state when
the iconic password sequence is entered to access and/or execute a se-
lected function, while in the present invention the method of new claim
1 is directed to a process of transitioning the devices from a locked state
to user-interface unlock state.

Unlocking the device, however, is not the same as unlocking a re-
stricted function on the device. Indeed unlocking a restricted function in
D2 occurs when the computer is already in an unlocked state. For ex--
ample, see D2 at column 7, lines 34 to 44, which describe the need to
distinguish entry of an iconic password from a drag-and-drop request
used for other actions. Such other actions occur when the computer is in
an unlocked state, not when the computer is in a locked state.

In addition, D2 also does not disclose the feature (b). Particularly, in D2
no path is displayed on the touch screen, along which the icon is to be
                                                fie

                                                                                                                                         BARDEHLE
                                                                                                                                         PAGENBERG
                                                                                                                                         DOST
                                                                                                                                         ALTENBURG
                                                                                                                                         GEISSLER

         moved but rather, if at all, only a target area is show on the screen. A
         path to such area remains both undefined and undisplayed. Therefore, in
         the process of the current invention a contact which is not following the
         path is rapidly recognized as not meeting the unlock condition and thus
         does not lead to an unlocking of the device. Such deviation from the
         predefined path could for example occur due to an accidental, i.e. unin-
         tentional moving contact on the touch screen, which in line with the
         very objective of a device locking feature should not lead to an unlock-
         ing of the device. In D2, however, the path used for moving the icons to
         the target area is arbitrary and thus an unintentional or wrong contact
         cannot be recognized by detecting a deviation from the predetermined
         path as a deviation from the predefined gesture leading to the unlocking
          of the device.

         Thus also D2 fails to disclose features (a) and (b) of new claim 1 as
          identified above.

3.4 The invention of new claim 1 is therefore not obvious over D1 and D2,
         either taken alone or in combination.

         Further independent new claims 6 and 18 are directed to an apparatus
         respectively a computer program product corresponding to the method
         of new claim 1 and containing the same or similar features.

         Therefore, also new claims 6 and 18 involve an inventive step.
                                                6%

                                                                                                                                         BARDEHLE
                                                                                                                                         PAGENBERG
                                                                                                                                         DOST
                                                                                                                                         ALTENBURG
                                                                                                                                         GEISSLER

                                              IV.

It is respectfully requested to grant a patent on the basis of the new claims.

It is respectfully requested to be allowed to postpone the adaptation of the de-
scription until an allowable set of claims has been agreed upon.

Auxiliary, if there are still substantive objections with respect to the patentabil-
ity of the present invention, it is requested to perform an informal interview
and/or oral proceedings according to Article 116 EPC.

Enclo res
New set of claims 1 to 18
The same new set of claims with amendments highlighted
