United States Patent (19)
Ogura et al.

USOO5907327A
11 Patent Number: 5,907,327 (45) Date of Patent: May 25, 1999

54). APPARATUS AND METHOD REGARDING
DRAG LOCKING WITH NOTIFICATION

75 Inventors: Tsuyoshi Ogura; Akihisa Itoh, both of Fukushima-ken, Japan
73 Assignee: Alps Electric Co., Ltd., Japan

21 Appl. No.: 08/912,886 22 Filed: Aug. 15, 1997 30 Foreign Application Priority Data

Aug. 28, 1996 JP Japan .................................... 8-2271.51
(51) Int. Cl." ........................................................ G06F 3/00 52 U.S. Cl. ............................................. 345/339; 34.5/173 58 Field of Search ............................. 345/339, 173-178

56)

References Cited

U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS

5,305,238 4/1994 Starr, III et al. ........................ 702/176

5,327,161 7/1994 Logan et al...

... 34.5/157

5,781,181 7/1998 Yanai et al. ............................. 345/173

FOREIGN PATENT DOCUMENTS

410003349 1/1998 Japan. 410069346 3/1998 Japan.
OTHER PUBLICATIONS

Burk, R., "A drag-and-drop edit control," Windows-Dos Developer's Journal, v3, n10, p39(9), 1992.
Gussin, L., "Horsesense and other tales: intermedia 93."
CD-ROM World, v8, n7, p54(3), 1993.

Tessler, F., "GlidePoint," Macworld, v 12, n7, p77(1), 1995. Linzmayer, O. W., "Trackpads, " MacWEEK, v9, n46, p62(1), 1995.
Tessler, F., "Touchpads," v13, n2, p.68(1), Feb., 1996.
Perratore, Ed, "Versapad, Computer Shopper, v 18, n2, p567(1), 1998.

Primary Examiner A. Katbab Attorney, Agent, or Firm Brinks Hofer Gilson & Lione

57

ABSTRACT

Disclosed are a coordinate input System and a method of controlling the coordinate input System, which can notify a
user of a State of having come into a drag lock mode in an easily discernable manner, and hence can keep the user from being embarrassed as far as possible. When the user operates a coordinate detecting device (PD) Such as a pad, the operating action is Sent to a coordinate outputting device (PC) Such as a personal computer. If the user makes a predetermined drag lock action, this action is detected by a measuring unit (13), causing a mode converter (14) to effect shift to a drag lock mode. The coordinate outputting device (PC) is thereby held in a similar state as allowing continuous dragging of an icon or window indicated on the Screen of a display (16). At this time, a controller (15) replaces the cursor indicated on the Screen by other one having a different shape specific to the drag lock mode. After that, if the user
makes an action to release the drag lock mode, the mode converter (14) effects shift to a drag mode and the controller (15) restores the cursor on the Screen to the original one having the shape before the shift to the drag lock mode.

6 Claims, 5 Drawing Sheets

U.S. Patent

May 25, 1999 Sheet 2 of 5
FG. 2

5,907,327

FIG. 3A

FIG. 3B

U.S. Patent

May 25, 1999 Sheet 3 of 5
FIG. 4

START
S
READ DATA FROM COORDNATE DETECTING DEVICE PD

S DRAG LOCK
DETECTED?

S2
NO

5,907,327

AUTO-RELEASE
TIMS E, APSED

NO
S4

SDRAG LOCK

FEEDBACK

NO

ALLOWED?

CHANGE CURSOR SHAPE
TURN ON FLAG

S7

S FLAG

NO

TURNED ON

2

YES S8

RESTORE CURSOR SHAPE

S9

TURN OFF FLAG

END

U.S. Patent

May 25, 1999 Sheet 4 of 5

5,907,327

F. G. 5

U.S. Patent

May 25, 1999 Sheet 5 of 5

5,907,327

F.G. 6

XX X X X X XXX X XXXX X XX XX X

5,907,327

1

2

APPARATUS AND METHOD REGARDING DRAG LOCKING WITH NOTIFICATION
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention

the finger being lifted off from the operating Surface. Once brought into a drag lock State, even if the finger is lifted off from the operating Surface during the Slide action, it is possible to freely move the icon or window, upon which the cursor has been first put, on the Screen under continuation of the drag mode by sliding the finger on the operating Surface

The present invention relates to a coordinate input System again.

for use in operating a cursor or window on the Screen, and Usually, an effective area on the operating Surface of a pad

a method of controlling the coordinate input System.

is Smaller than that on the display Screen of a computer.

2. Description of the Related Art

Thus, a region on the operating Surface of a pad where the

Heretofore, mouses and track balls have been generally used as pointing devices connected to computers. However,
other types of pointing devices called pads, touch pads, track pads, etc. have also been employed recently. In practical use,

user can move a finger has a different size in many cases from a region on the display Screen of a computer where a cursor is movable. ASSume now that dragging is to be performed by moving a cursor along a diagonal line from the

those pads are built in portable personal computers or 15 lower left corner to the upper right corner of the display

externally connected to desk top computers, and do not Screen of a computer under environment devoid of the drag

require to be moved in themselves unlike mouses. Thus, those pads have a feature that they can be operated without problems even in a limited Space on a desk or the like.
To move a cursor (or also called a pointer) on the display Screen of a computer by using Such a pad, it is only required
for a user to put a finger on a flat operating Surface Several centimeterS Square provided on the pad and then Slide the finger while keeping contact with the operating Surface. Similarly to a mouse, a pad includes a left button and a right
button. In addition, as with the case of clicking the left button, various operations Such as Selecting and moving an object displayed on the Screen, for example, an icon (i.e., a Symbol pattern representing the function of an application program) or a window (i.e., any of multiple independent Screens indicated on a display), can also be performed by Softly tapping the operating Surface with a finger. An action of carrying out those operations in Such a manner is espe cially called "tap (action) or "tapping".
By utilizing the above tap function, a pad makes it possible with one finger to perform not only the above-Stated operation equivalent to clicking of the left button, but also other operations equivalent to double clicking of the left button (used to, e.g., start up an application program), in which the left button is clicked twice successively, and dragging. Here, the operation called dragging means an

25
35 40

lock function. In this case, even when the user Slides a finger along a diagonal line on the operating Surface of the pad
from the lower left corner to the upper right corner, the cursor on the Screen is moved just to a position midway the diagonal line of the Screen.
Accordingly, to complete the dragging on the display Screen of the computer, the drag action must be repeated Several times on the operating Surface of the pad and this is very troubleSome for users. On the contrary, in pads having the drag lock function, once the drag action is performed on the operating Surface of the pad, it is only required thereafter to Simply Slide a finger on the operating Surface of the pad in a like manner as required when the cursor is usually moved. Thus, a burden imposed on users can be alleviated
to a Substantial extent.
AS described above, providing the drag lock function makes it possible to considerably simplify the pad operation necessary for the dragging. But it can be said that the drag lock State is fairly anomalous, considering from the Stand point of usual pad operation. Accordingly, users may be
embarrassed because they can not understand what has happened, in the case that (1) the users are not familiar with the pad operation, or (2) the drag lock State has been brought unintentionally by false operation of the pad even when the users are skilled in the pad operation.

action to move an object displayed on the Screen, Such as an

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

icon or window, from one position to another desired In view of the state of art explained above, an object of the

position on the Screen.

45 present invention is to provide a coordinate input System and

The dragging can be realized with a pad by first putting a a method of controlling the coordinate input System, which

cursor upon an object displayed on the Screen, Such as an can notify users of a State of having come into a drag lock

icon or window, then tapping the operating Surface once, mode in an easily recognizable way, and hence can keep the

placing a finger on the operating Surface immediately after users from being embarrassed as far as possible.

the tapping, and sliding the finger on the operating Surface 50 To achieve the above object, according to a first aspect of

from there while keeping contact therebetween (slide the present invention, a coordinate input System comprises

action), causing the cursor to move on the Screen. an operating Surface on which a coordinate indicator is Alternatively, as with the case of using a mouse, the drag operated, operating action detecting means for detecting an

ging can also be realized by keeping the left button operating action performed by the coordinate indicator on

depressed by one finger with the cursor put on an object Such 55 the operating Surface, Screen operating means for carrying as an icon, and Simultaneously sliding another finger on the out Screen operation corresponding to the operating action,

operating surface. When the finger is lifted off from the drag lock detecting means for detecting, based on the

operating Surface during the Slide action of the finger on the operating action, a drag lock action that instructs locking of

operating Surface, a drag mode is released and the object is the Screen operating means to a drag mode, and notifying

moved to the position on the Screen to which the cursor has 60 means for notifying, in a predetermined manner, users of

moved.

that the Screen operating means is in a drag lock mode where

Meanwhile, Some pads are designed Such that if a finger the drag mode is in a locked State.

is moved a predetermined distance on the operating Surface According to a Second aspect of the present invention, in

after coming into a drag mode, the drag mode can be held the coordinate input System of the first aspect, the notifying

continuously even after the finger is lifted off from the 65 means executes the notice to users by changing the shape of

operating Surface. This function is called "drag lock' a cursor indicated on the Screen to a different shape specific

because the drag action is held in a locked State in spite of to the drag lock mode.

5,907,327

3

4

According to a third aspect of the present invention, in the coordinate detecting device PD. A left button LB and a right

coordinate input System of the first or Second aspect, the button RB correspond to a left button and a right button of

drag lock detecting means detects the drag lock action only a mouse, respectively, and have the same functions as the

when the coordinate indicator is dragged a predetermined corresponding buttons of the mouse. Also, a rectangular area

distance on the operating Surface in the drag mode.

denoted by reference characters SF represents an operating

According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, in a method of controlling a coordinate input System compris
ing at least an operating Surface on which a coordinate indicator is operated, operating action detecting means for detecting an operating action performed by the coordinate
indicator on the operating Surface, Screen operating means for carrying out Screen operation corresponding to the operating action, and drag lock detecting means for detecting, based on the operating action, a drag lock action

surface on which a coordinate indicator (not shown in FIG. 2) is operated. Note that the coordinate indicator used herein is a user's finger, for example, and the coordinate indicator means a finger F in the following description.
A sensor base plate 1 shown in FIG. 1 is provided under the operating Surface SF and includes a plurality of hori Zontal scan lines (extending in the direction of an X-axis in FIG. 2) and a plurality of vertical Scan lines (extending in the direction of a Y-axis in FIG. 2) formed thereon in a matrix pattern So that values of currents flowing through the Scan

that instructs locking of the Screen operating means to a drag 15 lines are changed upon the finger F touching the operating

mode, the Screen operation being executed upon the oper Surface SF. More Specifically, the coordinate detecting

ating Surface being operated, the method comprises a first device PD in this embodiment employs a tablet of electro

Step of changing the shape of a cursor on the Screen while Static capacity type that electrodes in a matrix pattern are

the drag lock detecting means is detecting the drag lock provided in each of front and rear Sides of an electrostatic

action, and a Second step of restoring the Shape of the cursor film and pulses are applied from one end of the electroStatic

to the original shape at the time when the drag lock action film to form an electric field. With this arrangement, when

is no longer detected after shift to the first Step.

the finger is brought into contact with the electroStatic film

through the operating Surface SF, the electroStatic capacity

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

in the contact portion is reduced. Therefore, the position of

FIG. 1 is a block diagram showing a configuration of a coordinate input System according to one embodiment of the present invention.
FIG. 2 is a top plan view showing an appearance of a coordinate detecting device PD according to the embodi

25

the contact portion where the finger touches the operating Surface is detected by converting a change in the electro Static capacity into changes in the current values. Thus, the coordinate position of the contact portion is designated by an
interSect point between one horizontal Scan line and one
Vertical Scan line.

ment.

On the other hand, the above-explained tapping or tap

FIG. 3A is an illustration showing one example of a cursor action can be detected by detecting that the finger is lifted off

indicated on a display Screen in a normal condition and FIG. from the operating surface SF immediately after touching it.

3B is an illustration showing one example of a cursor Furthermore, Sliding of the finger on the operating Surface

indicated on the display Screen in a condition of drag lock 35 SF can also be detected by calculating a change in position

feedback.

of the finger contact portion.

FIG. 4 is a flowchart for explaining operation of the Incidentally, the coordinate detecting device PD is not

coordinate input System according to the embodiment.

necessarily of electrostatic capacity type, but may be of

FIG. 5 is an illustration for explaining an operation preSSure Sensitive type, for example.

Sequence executed when a user performs a drag action by 40 Then, a horizontal Scanner 2 is a circuit which is used for

using the coordinate input System.

horizontal Scan of the Sensor base plate 1 and has a multi

FIG. 6 is a view showing one example of a Screen plicity of Signal output terminals connected to the horizontal

representation indicated on a display when the coordinate Scan lines of the Sensor base plate 1.

input System has come into the drag lock mode.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT

A vertical Scanner 3 is a circuit which is used for vertical
45 Scan of the Sensor base plate 1, has a multiplicity of Signal input terminals connected to the vertical Scan lines of the Sensor base plate 1, and generates a Serial detection Signal

One embodiment of the present invention will be representing a Scan action of the finger.

described hereunder with reference to the drawings. It is 50 The Serial detection signal includes a tap component here noted that the present invention intends to configure a produced when the finger is tapped on the operating Surface

coordinate input System to be able to notify users of a drag SF of the Sensor base plate 1, and a slide component

lock State when this State has been established, and Such a produced when the finger is slid on the operating Surface SF.

notice to users is called "drag lock feedback'.

Here, the tap component includes an address component

Of the drawings, FIG. 1 is a block diagram showing a 55 indicating the position where the finger contacts the oper configuration of a coordinate input System according to this ating Surface SF, and the Slide component includes address

embodiment. As shown in FIG. 1, the coordinate input components indicating from which position the finger has System mainly comprises two devices, i.e., a coordinate Slid to which position on the operating Surface SF.

detecting device PD and a coordinate outputting device PC. A control/drive unit 4 Supplies respective Scan driving

The coordinate detecting device PD is, for example, a pad 60 Signals to the horizontal Scanner 2 and the Vertical Scanner

Such as described above and the coordinate outputting 3 for driving the horizontal scanner 2 and the vertical

device PC is, for example, a personal computer to which the Scanner 3.

pad is connected.

An A/D (analog/digital) converter 5 converts the Serial

First, prior to describing various components of the coor detection signal produced by the Vertical Scanner 3 into a

dinate detecting device PD, a mechanical configuration of 65 digital signal.

the coordinate detecting device PD will be described in A tap/slide component extractor 6 extracts the tap and

brief. FIG. 2 is a top plan View showing an appearance of the Slide components from the Serial detection signal converted

5,907,327

S

6

into the digital Signal, and carries out conversion into elapsed, without waiting for any action from the user. To this

three-dimensional coordinate values after Separating the tap end, the measuring unit 13 includes a timer mechanism for

and Slide components from each other. The three measuring a period of time elapsed from the detection of the

dimensional coordinate values are then output along with the drag lock action, and monitors whether the period of time

tap and slide components.

measured by the timer exceeds a certain preset value. At the

Based on the three-dimensional coordinate values Sent
from the tap/slide component extractor 6, a data processor 7
determines whether the tap action has been executed or not. At the same time, the data processor 7 removes noise from the Slide component and transforms through correction a change in position of the finger on a two-dimensional coordinate System of the operating Surface SF, which is made up of X-/Y-axes, into a Smooth Straight or curved line.

time when the preset value is exceeded, the measuring unit 13 delivers a control Signal indicating the detection of the
auto-release to the mode converter 14.
In addition to the above, the measuring unit 13 further Supplies corresponding control Signals to the mode converter 14 when the tap action is executed after the detection of the drag lock action (this represents a condition of releasing the drag lock State) and when the tap-off information is detected after the detection of the drag action (this represents a

An interface 8 is a circuit for transferring data between the condition of releasing the drag State).

coordinate detecting device PD and the coordinate output 15 In accordance with the control signal Sent from the

ting device PC. Based on the information sent from the data measuring unit 13, the mode converter 14 Switches over the

processor 7, the interface 8 adds information about tap-on/ coordinate outputting device PC to one of a drag mode, a

off and information about turning-on/off of each of the left drag lock mode and a normal mode other than the former

button LB and the right button RB for each of the corrected twoS. More Specifically, when the detection of the drag

absolute coordinate positions (X, Y) on the two-dimensional action is informed from the measuring unit 13, the mode

coordinate System of the operating Surface SF. These items converter 14 shifts the coordinate outputting device PC from

of information are then delivered to an output port 9 along the normal mode to the drag mode, and when the detection

with the tap and Slide components.

of the drag lock action is informed from the measuring unit

Various components of the coordinate
PC will now be described.

outputting device

25

13, it shifts the coordinate outputting device drag mode to the drag lock mode.

PC from

the

First, an interface 10 is a circuit for transferring data Further, when the detection of the tap action or the elapse

between the coordinate outputting device PC and the coor of the auto-release time is informed from the measuring unit

dinate detecting device PD, and receives the above-Stated 13 during the drag lock mode, the mode converter 14

items of information through an input port 11. Note that if restores the coordinate outputting device PC to the drag

the coordinate outputting device PC is a personal computer, mode. Additionally, as with conventional Systems, when the

the interface 10 and the input port 11 correspond to a known detection of the tap-off information is informed from the

Serial port or mouse port.

measuring unit 13 during the drag mode, the mode converter

A data analyzer 12 takes in through the interface 10 the 14 restores the coordinate outputting device PC to the

items of information sent from the side of the coordinate 35 normal mode. Whenever any of those mode changes is detecting device PD, and detects not only click actions of the performed, the mode converter 14 informs the controller 15

left and right buttons, but also a tap action, a drag action, a of the mode after the change.

Slide action, etc. on the operating Surface SF made by the Moreover, the mode converter 14 Stores therein a Setting

user from the button-on/off information, the tap-on/off value indicating whether to permit or prohibit the drag lock

information, and So forth. Then, the data analyzer 12 Sup 40 feedback, and the types of the cursor to be indicated on the plies a detected result to a measuring unit 13 and a controller Screen when the drag lock feedback is under execution.

15 (described later) along with the tap and slide components. Incidentally, these items of information are Stored in the

At the time when detection of the drag action is informed mode converter 14 by the controller 15 in accordance with, from the data analyzer 12, the measuring unit 13 Supplies a e.g., the known processing Sequence which is proceeded by

control Signal indicating the detection of the drag action to 45 the user responding to the menu indicated on the display a mode converter 14 (described later). Also, after the time at Screen of a computer.

which the drag action has been detected, the measuring unit The controller 15 is a circuit for Supervising the compo

13 monitors whether the slide action is made or not. If the nents of the coordinate outputting device PC except the

distance by which the finger F is slid on the operating interface 10. Functions of the controller 15 will be described

Surface SF exceeds a certain predetermined value, this is 50 in detail in the following explanation of the operation.

determined as a drag lock action. The measuring unit 13 then The display 16 comprises a display device of a personal

Supplies a control Signal indicating the detection of the drag computer, for example, and indicates various images,

lock action to the mode converter 14.

including a window and cursor, on the Screen of the display

The drag lock action may be detected by any other method device in accordance with instructions from the controller

than above. For example, a period of time in which the slide 55 15.

action continues after the detection of the drag action is A ROM (Read Only Memory) 17 stores therein operating

measured. Then, if the measured value exceeds a certain programs for the controller 15, data of various cursor Shapes,

value, this may be determined as a drag lock action. An Sound information for use in producing Sounds from a Sound

alternative method may not include sliding of the finger F on source 19 (described later), etc. The various cursor shapes

the operating Surface SF after the drag action. For example, 60 include a typical shape of arrow as shown in FIG. 3A. On the

if the finger F is touched on the operating Surface SF again other hand, the cursor displayed under the drag lock feed

after the tapping and a predetermined period of time elapses back may have any desired shape unless it is not used in

with the finger F kept contact with the operating Surface SF, other modes than the drag lock feedback. But the cursor

this may be determined as a drag lock action.

preferably has Such a shape as enabling the user to under

On the other hand, the measuring unit 13 has the so-called 65 Stand at a glance that the drag mode is in the "locked' State.

"auto-release" function of automatically releasing the drag Preferable conceivable shapes of the cursor are, e.g., "fist"

lock State if a certain predetermined period of time has just (see FIG. 3B), "lock" and "key".

5,907,327

7

8

A RAM (Random Access Memory) 18 is a memory information, adds these items of information to the data Sent

circuit for temporarily storing data when the controller 15 from the data processor 7, and then Supplies them to the

executes various processing Steps. AS one example, the output port 9 for delivery to the coordinate outputting device

RAM 18 stores a "flag" indicating whether the drag lock PC.

feedback is under execution or not. If the flag is turned on, On the side of the coordinate outputting device PC, the

this indicates that the drag lock feedback is under execution, information Supplied to the input port 11 is Sent to the data

and if the flag is turned off, this indicates that the drag lock analyzer 12 through the interface 10. The process of taking

feedback is not under execution. Incidentally, the flag is Set in data from the coordinate detecting device PD into the

to turn off in its initial state.

coordinate outputting device PC is thus completed. Here, if

The above data of the cursor shapes may be stored in the the taken-in data is given by data representing only the Slide

RAM 18 rather than in the ROM 17. By thus storing, the action of the finger F, the information Supplied from the

controller 15 can transfer the data of the cursor shapes to the coordinate detecting device PD is sent to the controller 15

RAM 18 from an external memory medium, such as a hard which converts the information into data Suitable for dis

disk, beforehand So that the user can employ the cursor playing an image and Supplies the converted data to the

having a shape prepared by himself, for example.

15 display 16. As a result, corresponding to the movement of

A Sound Source 19 comprises a speaker and a drive circuit the finger F on the operating Surface SF, the cursor is moved

for the Speaker, for example, and produces various kinds of on the Screen of the display 16 relative to an object, Such as

Sounds in accordance with Sound information Sent from the a window or icon, indicated on the display Screen.

controller 15.

Next, the operation proceeds to step S2 in FIG. 4 to

The operation of the coordinate input System having the determine whether the drag lock action is detected or not, by

above-stated configuration will be described below.

checking if the user makes actions with the finger F as

At the beginning, the user makes Setting beforehand shown in FIG. 5. This determining process will be described

whether to permit or prohibit the drag lock feedback, thereby below in detail. If the user performs a series of predeter

Storing a Setting value in the mode converter 14. Also, the user designates the type of the cursor to be indicated on the

25

mined actions with the finger F, i.e., if the user makes finger F touch the operating surface SF and then lift off immedi

screen of the display 16 when the drag lock feedback is ately (i.e., tap action) and, after a short period of time, makes

under execution, thereby Storing the designated cursor type the finger F touch the operating Surface SF again and

in the mode converter 14. Further, the user sets in the continuously slide from there as shown in FIG. 5, the measuring unit 13 a period of time that should be elapsed coordinate outputting device PC is brought into the drag

from the drag lock action until the auto-release of the drag mode.

lock State. ASeries ofthese Setting procedures are carried out To this end, the data analyzer 12 first detects based on the

by the userby, for example, displaying a Setting window on tap-on/off information whether a Series of actions of tap

the Screen. Such Setting procedures are well known in the art on->tap-off->tap-on have been made within a predeter

and hence will not be described in detail.
The detailed operation of the coordinate input System will

35

mined short period component, the data

of time. Then, based on the slide analyzer 12 detects whether the Slide

now be described with reference to a flowchart of FIG. 4. It action of the finger F follows such a series of actions. When

is assumed in the following description that, in the initial the above tap action and the Slide action, i.e., the drag action,

State, the drag lock feedback is not executed and the flag is detected, the data analyzer 12 delivers to the measuring

stored in the RAM 18 is turned off. It is also assumed that 40 unit 13 a detection Signal indicating that the drag action has the controller 15 is indicating the cursor having a shape been detected.

shown in FIG. 3A on the screen of the display 16. Although In response to the detection Signal for the drag action from

the user can designate in practice whether to permit or the data analyzer 12, the measuring unit 13 delivers to the

prohibit the drag lock feedback, it is further assumed for mode converter 14 a control Signal indicating the detection

Simplicity of the explanation that the drag lock mode is 45 of the drag action. After that, the mode converter 14 moni always feasible if only requirements for shift to the drag lock tors based on the slide component whether the finger F

mode is Satisfied.

continues Sliding on the operating Surface SF.

First, in step S1 of FIG.4, data is taken into the coordinate Simultaneously, the mode converter 14 shifts the coordinate

outputting device PC from the coordinate detecting device outputting device PC to the drag mode. Thereafter, at the

PD. This data taking-in process will now be described with 50 time when the measuring unit 13 detects that the user

reference to FIG. 1. In the coordinate detecting device PD, continues Sliding the finger F on the operating Surface SF

the horizontal Scanner 2 and the vertical Scanner 3 are driven and also confirms that the distance by which the finger F has

for Scan by driving Signals output from the control/drive unit Slid exceeds a certain predetermined value, the measuring

4. When the user touches the sensor base plate 1 (i.e., the unit 13 delivers to the mode converter 14 a control signal

operating Surface SF) in a desired position with the finger F 55 indicating the above fact. In response to this control Signal,

(see FIG. 5) while Scan signals are Supplied to the respective the mode converter 14 shifts the coordinate outputting

Scan lines on the Sensor base plate 1, a Serial detection signal device PC to the drag lock mode.

corresponding to the operating action of the finger F is If the drag lock action is detected in Step S2 as described

output from the Vertical Scanner 3.

above, then the operation proceeds to Step S3 where the

The Serial detection Signal is converted into a digital 60 measuring unit 13 determines whether a predetermined

signal by the A/D converter 5, and thereafter the tap/slide period of time Set for the auto-release of the drag lock State

component extractor 6 extracts tap and Slide components has elapsed or not from the detection of the drag lock action.

from the digital Signal. The data processor 7 delivers the tap Here, the Set auto-release time is not yet elapsed. Therefore,

component directly to the interface 8, and removes noise the measuring unit 13 informs the result of the determination

from the Slide component for correction before delivering 65 to the controller 15. The operation then proceeds to step S4

the slide component to the interface 8. The interface 8 where the controller 15 refers to the setting information of

produces tap-on/off information and button-on/off the drag lock feedback stored in the mode converter 14 and

5,907,327

9

10

determines whether the user has made the Setting to permit operation is performed appropriately in a like manner to the

the execution of the drag lock feedback or not.

case in the conventional drag mode as mentioned above.

Now, if the execution of the drag lock feedback is If the measuring unit 13 detects the auto-release of the

permitted by the user, then the operation proceeds to Step S5 drag lock State in Step S3 while the processing of Steps

where the controller 15 retracts into the RAM 18 the normal S1-S6 is repeated after shift to the drag lock mode, then the

type cursor (i.e., the arrow-shaped cursor shown in FIG. 3A) mode converter 14 receives from the measuring unit 13 a

which is indicated on the display 16 at that time. After that, control Signal indicating the auto-release of the drag lock

the controller 15 takes in from the mode converter 14 the State, and shifts the coordinate outputting device PC from

type of the cursor that is to be displayed when the drag lock the drag lock mode to the drag mode. Therefore, the opera

feedback is under the execution (this type cursor is herein tion proceeds to Step S7 to execute the processing of Steps

after assumed to have the form of a fist shown in FIG. 3B), S7-S9 in accordance with the above-explained procedures

and reads shape data corresponding to that type of the cursor and then execute the processing in a similar manner as in the

from the ROM 17, thereby indicating that type cursor on the conventional drag mode.

screen of the display 16. Subsequently, in step S6, the Incidentally, if the drag lock feedback is prohibited in Step

controller 15 rewrites the flag stored in the RAM 18 from an 15 S4, then the processing for the drag lock mode is carried out

off-state to an on-state to indicate that the drag lock feedback in accordance with Similar procedures as conventional with

is under the execution.

out executing the above processing of StepS 5 and 6, i.e.,

If the finger F is lifted off from the operating surface SF without changing the shape of the cursor.

after that, the tap-off information is informed from the coordinate detecting device PD to the coordinate outputting device PC. At this time, however, the coordinate outputting

With this embodiment, as described above, if the drag lock feedback is just allowed when the mode is shifted to the drag lock mode, the cursor is replaced by other one having

device PC has been already brought into the drag lock mode. a different shape Specific to the drag lock mode. This

Accordingly, unlike the case where the finger F is lifted off provides an advantage of keeping users from being hardly

in the Simple drag mode, the drag State is kept continued in the coordinate outputting device PC.

25

embarrassed even in the case that the users are not familiar
with the pad operation, or that the drag lock State has been

Supposing now that an object to be dragged is a window, brought unintentionally by false operation of the pad.

for example, not only a cursor 21 in the form of a fist and a window 22 to be dragged, but also a frame 23 having the
Same size as the window 22 remain displayed on a Screen 20 of the display 16 (see FIG. 1) as shown in FIG. 6. When the

While the state of having come into the drag lock mode is notified to the user in the above embodiment by changing the shape of the cursor, the manner of realizing the drag lock
feedback is not limited to the above embodiment. For

finger F is put on the operating Surface SF again in the above example, the drag lock feedback may be realized by causing

condition and continuously slid from there, the controller 15
moves the cursor 21 and the frame 23 in interlock relation
on the Screen 20 corresponding to the Slide action of the finger F in accordance with the Slide component Sent from the data analyzer 12.

35

the Sound Source 19 to issue an alarm Sound specific to the drag lock mode, or changing a pattern of the frame 23 on the
Screen 20, at the time when the drag lock mode is estab lished. In addition, other various notifying methods are also conceivable by those skilled in the art.

Even after that, during a period of time in which the drag lock condition is detected, the above processing from Step S1 to step S6 is repeated.
Subsequently, when the user makes the tap action on the operating Surface SF, the processing of Step S2 determines

40

According to the present invention, as described above, when the drag lock action is performed on the operating
Surface, the fact that the drag mode is instructed to be locked by Such an action on the Screen is notified to the user in a predetermined manner. It is thus possible to provide an

that the drag lock condition is no longer detected. More Specifically, if the measuring unit 13 detects the tap action

advantage of keeping users from being embarrassed even in the case that the Screen operation is performed by unskilled

again after the time at which the drag lock action has been 45 users, or that the drag lock State has been brought uninten

detected, it delivers to the mode converter 14 a control Signal tionally by false operation of the pad.

indicating the above fact, thereby informing release of the drag lock mode. In response to the control Signal, the mode
converter 14 informs it to the controller 15.
Next, the operation proceeds to step S7 where the con

50

According to one preferable form of the present invention, Since the drag lock State is notified to the user by changing the shape of the cursor displayed on the Screen, it is possible to provide an advantage of enabling the user to

troller 15 refers to the flag stored in the RAM 18 and confirms that the flag is turned on (i.e., the drag lock

recognize by taking a glance at the Screen that the drag lock
State is established.

feedback is under execution). Then, in step S8, the controller What is claimed is:

15 reads the type of the cursor retracted into the RAM 18 and takes in Shape data corresponding to that type of the cursor 55 from the ROM 17, thereby restoring the cursor indicated on the screen 20 of the display 16 from the form of a fist (see FIG. 3B) to the form of an arrow (see FIG. 3A).
On the other hand, when the mode converter 14 is informed of the release of the drag lock mode from the 60

1. A coordinate input System for drag control comprising:
an operating Surface on which a coordinate indicator is operated,
operating action detecting means for detecting a tap operating action or a slide operating action performed by Said coordinate indicator on Said operating Surface,

measuring unit 13 and thereafter the controller 15 confirms Screen operating means for carrying out Screen operation

in step S7 the flag being turned on, the mode converter 14

corresponding to Said operating action,

shifts the coordinate outputting device PC from the drag drag mode converting means for transferring a State of

lock mode to the drag mode.

Said Screen operating means to a drag mode State on the

Then, in step S9, the controller 15 rewrites the flag stored 65 basis of Said tap operating action,

in the RAM 18 from an on-state to an off-state to set a state drag lock mode converting means for transferring a State

that the drag lock feedback is not executed. After that, the

of Said Screen operating means to a drag lock mode

5,907,327

11

12

State in response to Said slide operating action under drag mode converting means for transferring a State of

Said drag mode State, and

Said Screen operating means to a drag mode State on the

notifying means for detecting the conversion into Said

basis of Said tap operating action,

drag lock mode State and notifying, in a predetermined drag lock mode converting means for transferring a State

manner, that Said drag mode State is continued. 2. The coordinate input System of claim 1, wherein Said notifying means executes Said notice to users by changing
the shape of a cursor indicated on Said Screen to a different shape specific to the drag lock mode.

of Said Screen operating means to a drag lock mode State in response to Said slide operating action under Said drag mode State,
drag lock detecting means for detecting conversion into Said drag lock mode, and

3. The coordinate input System of claim 1, wherein Said drag lock detecting means detects Said drag lock action only when Said coordinate indicator is dragged a predetermined
distance on Said operating Surface in the drag mode.
4. The coordinate input System of claim 2, wherein Said drag lock detecting means detects Said drag lock action only 15 when Said coordinate indicator is dragged a predetermined distance on Said operating Surface in the drag mode.
5. A method of controlling a coordinate input System for drag control comprising:

drag lock releasing mode conversion means in which a drag lock mode State is released in response to Said tap operating action under Said drag lock mode State and recovered to Said drag mode State,
Said method comprising:
a first Step of changing the shape of a cursor on Said Screen while Said drag lock detecting means is detecting Said drag lock action, and
a Second Step of restoring the shape of Said cursor at the
time when said drag lock mode State is released after

an operating Surface on which a coordinate indicator is operated,

shift to said first step.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein said drag lock releas ing mode conversion means includes an automatic releasing

operating action detecting means for detecting a tap function for automatically releasing after elapsing of a

operating action or a slide operating action performed predetermined period of time from a time at which the drag

by Said coordinate indicator on Said operating Surface, 25 lock mode State is detected.

Screen operating means for carrying out Screen operation

corresponding to Said operating action,

kkkkk

UNITED STATES PATENT ANDTRADEMARK OFFICE
CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION

DATED

:

INVENTOR(S) :

May 25, 1999
Ogura et al.

It is certified that error appears in the above-identified patent and that said Letters Patent is hereby
Corrected as shown below:

On the Title Page item 57, Abstract, In column 2, line 15, replace other" with -- another-- .

In claim 6, line 1, replace "4" with --5- - .

Attesting Officer

Signed and Scaled this Fourteenth IDay of IDecember, 1999
3.72%
Q. TopD DICKINSON
Acting Comunissioner of Patents and Trudenurks

