Datum                  Blatt            Anmelde-Nr:                          22 885 594.6

Date cf Form 1507      Sheet 1          Application No:
                       Feuille          Demande nº:
Date

The examination is being carried out on the following application documents

Description, Pages

1-49                filed with entry into the regional phase before the EPO

Claims, Numbers

1-15                filed with entry into the regional phase before the EPO

Drawings, Sheets

1/6-6/6             filed with entry into the regional phase before the EPO

1        Reference is made to the following document; the numbering will be adhered to

         in the rest of the procedure.

D1       Junya Honda et al .: "Polar Coding Without Alphabet Extension for

         Asymmetric Models", IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 59, no. 12,

         December 2013, pages 7829-7838, XP055463520, ISSN: 0018-9448, DOI: 10.1109/TIT.

         2013.2282305

D2       Zheng Mengfan et al: "Joint Source-Channel Polar Coding for Biased

         Bernoulli Sources at Short Blocklengths", 11TH International Symposium on Topcs

         in Coding, ISTC, IEEE, 30 August 2021, pages 1-5, XP034018256,

         DOI: 10.1109/ISTC49272.2021.9594160 [retrieved on 2021-10-28]

1.1 Document D1 discloses a method of polar coding (see title) for performing
         channel coding for an asymmetric channel requiring a nonuniform channel
         symbol distribution and for lossy source coding of nonuniform sources (see
         abstract and section "I Introduction"). Channel coding is disclosed in section
         III.A (i.e. "III. Polar Codes for Asymmetric Channels"; "A. Code Construction").
         Assuming a polar code of length n having an information set I and a frozen set Ic
         (defined as complementary subsets of {1, 2, ... ,n}), a frozen bit u; has a
         deterministic value depending on the previous information and frozen bit values
         U1 ... Uj-1 (noted u;i-1). Therefore, the frozen bits are not set to a default value

          such as zero.

         The frozen value uj given u-1-1 is selected non-uniformly, i.e. with different
         probabilities of being 0 or 1, by using maps generated based on pseudorandom
         number sequences shared by the encoder and decoder, wherein a map is a

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum                   Blatt    Anmelde-Nr:               22 885 594.6

Date cf Form 1507       Sheet 2  Application No:
                                 Demande nº:
Date                    Feuille

   functions associating to binary i-tuples to a binary value, where i takes any

   value in the frozen set.

   The information and frozen bits are then polar encoded by multiplication by a
   polarization matrix.
   In the source coding setup (see section IV; see notations X, Y in section II), the
   encoder receives a non-uniformly distributed source message y-", determines

   from y-" a sequence of information bits (eq. 19) and determines frozen (eq. 20)
   bits by using a map between info/frozen bits ... (i-1) to {0,1}, as in the channel

                                                                                                                                                                                      1

   coding case. The encoder then sends the information bits, hence achieving a
   compression ratio with is the size of the information set divided by n.

1.2 Document D2 discloses a joint source-channel polar coding method for
         Bernouilli sources (see title). Encoding is by concatenating a source polar
         encoder and a channel polar encoder. At the decoder side, joint decoding is
         provided (see fig 3). The performance for short blocklengths (i.e. short polar
         code length) is improved by applying CRC-aided successive cancellation
         decoding to the source polar coding.

2  The application does not meet the requirements of Article 84 EPC because the

   claims are not clear and supported by the description.

2.1 In claim 1, the formulation "A coding method, applied to a first communications
         device" lacks clarity as to whether the first communications device actually
         performs the method.

2.2 In claim 1, the formulation "a probability distribution value P1 of the first

         information bit sequence" is not clear since the specific definition of this term
         used in the application (see [87]-[89]) is not defined in claim 1. It results that
         claim 1 is not clear by itself.
         Furthermore, claim 1 lacks of support in the description over the whole area
         claimed. According to par. [89] of the description, in the present application, a
         probability distribution value has the following definition: "A probability
         distribution value of an information bit sequence is a proportion of 0 or 1 in the
         information bit sequence". However, the formulation of claim 1 is vague and
         encompasses interpretations which are not supported by the description, such
         as a-priori knowledge that an information bit has a probability of being zero or
         one, or such as a symbol (e.g. zero or one) of a set of symbols having a
          probability distribution, etc ...
         The definition of paragraph [89] should therefore be included in claim 1.

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum                   Blatt    Anmelde-Nr:      22 885 594.6

Date cf Form 1507       Sheet 3  Application No:
                        Feuille  Demande nº:
Date

2.3 In claim 1, the formulation "determining a frozen bit sequence" is not clear and
         supported by the description over its whole breadth.
         A plain reading of this feature would be determining the frozen set, that is, a
         sequence of frozen indexes at the input of the polar encoder.
         However, according to the summary of the invention, claim 1 (copied in par. [6]
         of the description) has the effect (see par. [7]) that "values of the first frozen bit
         sequence are determined based on the probability distribution value of the first
         information bit sequence, instead of by setting the values of the first frozen bit
         sequence to all Os by default" (emphasis added). A similar disclosure is
         provided in par. [106]. Since claim 1 neither specifies values of the frozen bit
         sequence nor specifies departing from the conventional method of setting
         frozen its to zero, it encompasses readings (such as indicated above) which are
         not supported by the description. Furthermore, claim 1 does not contains the

          features which are essential to achieve the effect of the invention.

2.4 It is noted that the defects identified above under 2.2 and 2.3 could be
         overcome by amending the frozen bit sequence determining step as follows:
         determining the values of a first frozen bit sequence based on a probability
          distribution value P1 of the first information bit sequence without setting the
          values to zero by default, wherein the probability distribution value P- is a

         proportion of 0 or 1 in the first information bit sequence

2.5 Claims 3 and 13 are unclear because the claimed features appear tautological:
         in an equiprobable distribution, P1 is by definition equal to 0,5, so that the
         relationship |P1-0,5| & is necessarily held for any value of &.

2.6 Claim 4 appears to be useful in the case where a pre-transformation is
         employed, see par. [12]. However, this case is only one of two alternative cases
         in claim 1. It is obscure what the technical effect of the features of claim 4 might
          be when applied in combination with the alternative of claim 1 were no pre-
         transformation is performed.

2.7 In claim 5, the formulation "the check bit sequence is located in the bits
         comprised in the second information bit sequence" is not clear. A plain reading
          the second information bit sequence contains check bits. However, in view of
         the par. [13] which visibly refers to the well-known technique of interspersing
         check bits within information bits for allowing early termination of decoding, it
         appears what "in" means something like "interspersed within", which is not clear
         from claim 5. It is noted that the term "interspersed" is not used in the
         application and cannot be used to clarify claim 5.

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum              Blatt                            Anmelde-Nr:      22 885 594.6
                   Sheet 4
Date cf Form 1507  Feuille                          Application No:
                                                    Demande nº:
Date

2.8 Claim 6 is not clear when dependent on the equiprobable distribution alternative
         of claims 1 and 2: in this case, there is only one possible probability distribution
         value P1=0,5 and it would not be technically meaningful to select a different
         value Po based on P1. It is noted that there is no disclosure in the application of
         alternating between the equiprobable and the non-equiprobable case.

2.9 Claim 9 is not clear for reasons similar to those of claim 6: in the configuration
         where P1=0,5, it has no technical function to signalize a probability distribution
          reference value to a receiver.

2.10 Claim 11 is not clear for the following reasons.

2.10.1  Claim 11 is not clear for reasons corresponding to points 2.1 to 2.3 above. In
        relation with 2.3, claim 11 is additionally unclear because it does not link the
        probability distribution value to the first information sequence, so that it is
        unclear what the probability distribution value represents.
        It is not evident how to clarify this point. Maybe the only possibility is to link
        claims 1 and 11 by clarifying that the second communications device (of claim
        11) obtains the to-be-decoded sequence sent by the first communication device,
        based on par. [154]-[157], which would also imply to include the sending step in
        claim 1, and, in order to avoid an intermediate generalisation, to add the
        disclosed modulation and a demodulation steps.

2.10.2 Claim 11 does not mention polar codes/coding/decoding. Although frozen bits
         are mentioned and suggest that a polar code is employed, this should be made
         explicit in claim 11 (this would be achieved by following the suggestion made in
          2.10.1).

2.11 Claim 12 is not clear for reasons corresponding to 2.8 above.

3       The present application does not meet the requirements of Article 52(1) EPC

        because the subject-matter of claims 1-3, 5, 10 does not involve an inventive

        step within the meaning of Article 56 EPC.

3.1 Concerning claims 1 and 2, first alternative.
         The "first" alternative refers to the alternative of claim 2 where P1 is an
         equiprobable distribution and where the first and second information bit
          sequences are identical.

3.1.1 Document D1 discloses a method having the following features of claim 1.

        A coding method, applied to a first communications device,

         D1, section III.A, see last paragraph of I.h. col .: "Third, the encoder sends the
         codeword ... ". The encoder is a first communication device.

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum              Blatt    Anmelde-Nr:      22 885 594.6

Date cf Form 1507  Sheet 5  Application No:
                   Feuille  Demande nº:
Date

          wherein the method comprises:H
          obtaining a first information bit sequence;

         D1, section III.A, see last paragraph of I.h. col .: "the encoder determines the

          information bits by "T = mj."

           determining a first frozen bit sequence based on a
          probability distribution value P1 of the first information
          bit sequence;

         D1, section III.A, see last paragraph of I.h. col .:
         "Next, for the frozen bits Ic, the encoder determines the value uj, i E Ie , in the

       ascending order by uj = (u')"; and

         "Let MIT!denote a message uniformly distributed on {0, 1} }". The uniform
         distribution corresponds to P1=0,5.

         The formula uj = ("1") expresses that the frozen bit at index i depends over
         the map A; from all information and frozen bits at indexes 1 ... (i-1). Since the
         information bits have the probability distribution value P1=0,5, it results that the
         values of the frozen bits are based on P1. This is the case because a different
          probability distribution value would result into different messages, which in turn
         results in different frozen bit values.
          It is noted that the clarified formulation suggested above in section 2.4 would
         not be distinguished from D1.

           determining a check bit sequence based on a second
           information bit sequence, wherein the second information
           bit sequence is the first information bit sequence or a
           sequence obtained after a pre-transformation operation is
            performed on the first information bit sequence;
           obtaining a first bit sequence based on the second
           information bit sequence, the check bit sequence, and the
           first frozen bit sequence, wherein the first bit sequence
           comprises bits in the second information bit sequence, bits
           in the check bit sequence, and bits in the first frozen bit

            sequence;

         D1, section III.A, see last paragraph of I.h. col .: "Third, the encoder sends the
         codeword "1 = ""Gn.", where u," constitutes a first bit sequence.
         Note that u," contains values u; with i being in the frozen set, and information

                                   I

         bits I = mi which constitute the "first information bit sequence, which in turn
         can be identical to the "second information bit sequence" according to the
          above-feature of claim 1.

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum                   Blatt    Anmelde-Nr:      22 885 594.6
                        Sheet 6  Application No:
Date cf Form 1507       Feuille  Demande nº:

Date

       performing polar coding on the first bit sequence to obtain
       a second bit sequence; and
       outputting the second bit sequence.

       See again: "encoder sends the codeword " = utG. ".

3.1.2  Consequently, the method of claim 1 differs from that of D1 by using a check bit
       sequence based on the second information bit sequence, which may be
       according to claim 1 equal to the first information bit sequence, i.e. the
       information bits of the message to be encoded.
       The objective technical problem is to increase coding performance.

3.1.3  It is notoriously known that adding parity bits, for example CRC bits, increases
       the performance of a polar code, especially for small block lengths in which the
       channels are not completely polarized.
       It is also noted that document D1 discloses using successive cancellation
       decoding (cf. page 7833, I.h. column, after equation (25)), which can notoriously
       be improved by using a successive cancellation list, SCL, decoding in a so-
       called CRC-Aided, CA-Polar, setup where CRC bits allow to aid selecting the
       correct path and/or to verify whether decoding is correct.
       It is also noted that document D2 shows that CRC-aided polar source coding is
       known in the art, in order to improve the short-block performance.
       Consequently, the skilled person would arrive at the subject-matter of claims 1
       and 2 without the exercise of inventive activity (note: the features of claim 2
       limiting claim 1 to the first alternative defined above in the introductory
       paragraph of section 3.1 were assumed in the above feature analysis).

3.2 Concerning claims 1 and 2, second alternative.
         The "second" alternative refers to the alternative of claim 2 where P1 is a non

         equiprobable distribution and where the second information bit sequence is
         obtained by performing a pre-transformation on the first information bit

           sequence.

         Reference is made to D1, section "IV. Application to Lossy Source Coding".
         The complete feature analysis is not repeated below. It is noted that the pre-
         transformation of the first information bit sequence into the second information
         bit sequence (which is not present in the first alternative of claim 1 and has
         therefore not been mapped to D1 in the above reasoning) reads onto the
         operation of equation (19). It therefore appears that the subject-matter of claim
         1 differs from D1, section IV, only by adding a check bit sequence, which lacks
         an inventive step for the same reasons as those indicated above.

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum                   Blatt    Anmelde-Nr:      22 885 594.6

Date cf Form 1507       Sheet 7  Application No:
                        Feuille  Demande nº:
Date

3.3 Concerning claim 3
         In the equiprobable case disclosed in D1, the probability distribution value is
         P1= 0,5 (by definition), so that |P1-0,5]=0, which is smaller than any preset
          value.

3.4 Concerning claims 5 and 10
         As indicated above having regard to claim 1, it is well-known in the art to
         perform CA-polar encoding/decoding with check bits interspersed within the
         information bits in order to assist the decoder in pruning paths in a SCL
         decoding method.

4  Positive statements

   A claim based on a combination of present claims 1, 2, and 6, clarified as
   indicated above in sections 2.1 and 2.4 above, and furthermore clarified by
   deleting the equiprobable alternative from claims 1-2, would appear to be novel,
   inventive and clear. By doing so (by incorporating claim 6), it would also be
   related to the same invention as independent claim 11.
   The subject-matter of claim 11 is new and inventive. Clarity issues might be
   overcome as indicated above.
   The prior art does not suggest the subject-matter of a combination of claims 1
   and 4. However, this claim combination gives rise to clarity issues as indicated

   above.

5  The following requirements should be attended to when filing new application

   documents.

5.1 To meet the requirements of Rule 43(1) (a) and (b) EPC, the independent claim
         should be properly cast in the two part form, with those features which are part
         of the prior art (see document D1) being placed in the preamble.

5.2 Reference signs in parentheses should be inserted in the claims to increase
         their intelligibility, Rule 43(7) EPC. This applies to both the preamble and
         characterising portion.

5.3 In order to indicate more completely the background art useful for
         understanding the invention, the above-mentioned documents D1 and D2
         should be acknowledged in the description (Rule 42 (1) (b) and (c) EPC).

5.4 Paragraph [1] of the description should be deleted because it contains irrelevant
         subject-matter, Rule 48(1)(c) EPC, and an unallowable indication of
         incorporating a document by reference, cf. F-III 8.

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
Datum                   Blatt    Anmelde-Nr:      22 885 594.6
                        Sheet 8  Application No:
Date cf Form 1507       Feuille  Demande nº:

Date

5.5 The description should be adapted to the claims to be filed:
         - The summary of the invention should be maintained in strict conformity with
         the claims, preferably by using a reference to the claims. Copy of superseded
         claims must be deleted because they suggest that the invention might be
         different than as defined in the claims.
         - The description should be entirely reviewed to ensure that combination of
         features of the independent claims are not be presented as optional, that
         embodiments which are not covered by the independent claims are identified as
         such or deleted, and generally, that there are no statement suggesting that the
         invention might be different from what is specified in the claims. In particular, the
         passages of the description relating to dependent claims incorporated into an
         independent claims have to be checked with care.
         - reference to the scope of the application (see par. [289]) should be deleted
         since the scope is defined by the claims.

5.6 In order to comply with the requirements of Rule 137(4) EPC, the applicant
         should clearly identify the amendments made and indicate the passages of the
         application as filed on which these amendments are based (see Guidelines H
          III, 2.1).

EPO Form 1703 01.91TRI
