                                                                BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Pettenkoferstraße 22 80336 München Germany  Ihr Zeichen / your ref.                                            Dr. Matthias Hofmann
                                                                                                                                   Pettenkoferstraße 22
Online filing                                                   22 794 201.8                                                       80336 München
                                                                                                                                   Germany
Europäisches Patentamt                                          Ihre Nachricht /your letter
80298 München                                                                                                                      T +49-89 559680
                                                                Unser Zeichen / our ref.                                           F +49-89-559685090
                                                                                                                                   hofmann@boehmert.de
                                                                H14360WOEP                                                         www.boehmert.de

                                                                                                                          München  Dr. Ing. Karl Boehmert PA (1899-1973)
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Ing. Albert Boehmert PA (1902-1993)
                                                                                17.03.2025                                         Wilhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr .- Ing. Walter Hoormann PA*, Bremen
European Patent Application EP 22 794 201.8                                                                                        Prof. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA', Munchen, Shanghai
DATA BACKUP METHOD AND SYSTEM, AND RELATED                                                                                         Wolf-Dieter Kuntze RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA, Bremen
DEVICE
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Ing. Eva Liesegang PA", München
Huawei Cloud Computing Technologies Co., Ltd.                                                                                      Dr .- Ing. Matthias Philipp PA*, Bielefeld
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Martin Wirtz RA, Düsseldorf, Berlin
On the communication pursuant to Rules 70(2) and 70a(2) EPC dated                                                                  Dr. Carl-Richard Haarmann RA, Munchen, Dusseldorf
17.09.2024, the EPO is hereby informed that the applicant wishes to                                                                Dipl .- Phys. Christian W. Appelt PA", München
proceed further with the European patent application.                                                                              Dipl .- Phys. Dr .- Ing. Uwe Manasse PAs, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Bittner PA, Berlin
It is requested to begin with the examination on the basis of new                                                                  Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA, Munchen, Paris
claims 1 to 15 replacing the claims on file, new description pages 1 to                                                            Dipl .- Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA*, München
9 replacing description pages 1 to 9 on file, and the remaining                                                                    Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Karl-Heinz B. Metten PA*, Frankfurt
documents as currently on file.                                                                                                    Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA, Lic en droit, Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA, Berlin, Alicante
I. Amendments                                                                                                                      Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Volker Scholz PA+, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Martin Schaefer RA, Berlin
New claim 1 combines the features of previous claims 1, 5 and 7.                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Michael Hartig PA*, München, Paris
Original disclosure can be found in original claims 1, 5 and 7.                                                                    Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Steffen Schmidt PA, Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Andreas Lucke PA*, Munchen
Furthermore, new claim 1 is amended to specify that "wherein the                                                                   Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Ute Kilger PA', Berlin
primary cluster includes a first component and a second component,                                                                 Malte Nentwig, LL.M. RA, Bremen
the secondary cluster includes a third component and a fourth                                                                      Dr. Rudolf Bockenholt, LL.M. RA, Bremen
component, the third component is used as backup of the first                                                                      Peter Groß, LL.M. RA, München, Alicante
component, the fourth component is used as backup of the second                                                                    Dipl .- Ing. Felix Hermann PA", München
component." Original disclosure can be found in e.g., par. [0068] of                                                               Dr. Michael Rüberg, LL.M. RA, München, Paris
the original description and original Fig. 2.                                                                                      Dipl .- Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA+, Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Inform. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA*, München
New claim 1 has been further amended to specify that "the first                                                                    Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Martin Erbacher PA*, Bremen
component and the second component store data in different                                                                         Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA*, Frankfurt, Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebastian Engels RA, Berlin
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschaft mbB · Patentanwälte Rechtsanwälte · AG Bremen-PR 358 HB                                   Silke Freund RA, München
München · Bremen . Berlin . Düsseldorf . Frankfurt . Bielefeld . Alicante . Paris . Shanghai                                       Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Matthias Hofmann PA+, Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA, Bremen
Information about data protection and your rights as data subjects:                                                                Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA', München
www.boehmert.com/data-protection                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo ** PAT, München

                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Ing. Oliver Tarvenkorn PA', Düsseldorf, Bielefeld
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Katrin Seibt RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA*, Munchen (2007-2024)
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Xia Pfaffenzeller PA", München
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Inform. Fritz Jetzek PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA, Berlin, München
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyürek PA", München
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lars Eggersdorfer RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Ing. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA+, Berlin
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Chem. Robert Bernin PA", Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Ing. Jan Göring PA*, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA*, München
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flentje PA+, Munchen

                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara Gwinner PA*, München
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Alexander Thamer RA, Berlin
                                                                                                                                   Dr .- Ing. Michael Rubsamen PA", Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Michael Lohse PA", München
                                                                                                                                   Dr .- Ing. Jonas Boschung, M.Sc., M.Sc. PA*, Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Adrian Steffens PA*, Berlin
                                                                                                                                   Melanie Müller RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Giulio Schober PA*, München
                                                                                                                                   Micheline Verwohlt RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Nina Rücker RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Makiko Maruyama*, M.Sc., München
                                                                                                                                   Théodore Ley", München

                                                                                                                                   Dr. Oleg Lebedev*, Berlin
                                                                                                                                   Fabio Adinolfi RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Chem. Dr. José M. Pfizer PAT, Berlin, München
                                                                                                                                   Malte Windeler, LL.M. oec. RA, Bremen

                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Ing. Bemhard Jochim PA', Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Julian Wernicke, LL.M. (UCT) RA, Berlin
                                                                                                                                   Dipl .- Phys. Dr. habil. Daniel Niesner PA*, Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Hannah Dauer, LL.M. RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Stella Euchner RA, Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Jan Bohl, M.Sc. PA, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr .- Ing. Dominik Denker, M.Sc. PA, Düsseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Victor V. Fetscher, LL.M. (Tel Aviv) RA, München
                                                                                                                                   Dr .- Ing. Thomas Michaelis PAT, München

                                                                                                                                   PA Patentanwalt/Patent Attorney *European Patent Attomey

                                                                                                                                   RA Rechtsanwalt/Attorney at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   ** Agente de la Propiedad Industrial (Spanien / Spain)
                                                                                                                                   Vertretung vor dem EUIPO - Marken und Designs
                                                                                                                                   Representation at EUIPO - Trade marks and Designs
                                                                         BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

formats, the third component and the fourth component store data in different
formats." Original disclosure can be found in e.g., pars. [0068], [0077] and [0078] of the
original description.
New claim 11 combines the features of previous claims 13 and 15. Original disclosure can
be found in original claims 13 and 15.
New claim 11 has been further amended in the same way as new claim 1.
Previous claims 5, 7 and 15 have been cancelled.

All claims have been provided with reference signs, where appropriate.

The description has been amended to acknowledge the prior art known from documents
D1 to D6 and to reflect the new claims.

Thus, all amendments meet the requirements of Art. 123(2) EPC.

II. Clarity
The Search Division in section 2.1.1 of the European Search Opinion (ESOP) objects that

"[ ... ] the subject-matter of claim 13 comprises merely a subset of features of the features
of claim 1." and therefore, claims 1 and 13 do not fall within one or more of the
exceptional situations out in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of Rule 43(2) EPC.

The applicant respectfully disagrees.

The objective technical problem solved by claims 1 and 13 (new claims 1 and 11) is how
to improve reliability of a data backup system.
Claim 1 approaches the problem from the controlling device's perspective (the
controlling phase) while claim 13 (new claim 11) approaches this problem from the
executing/primary cluster's perspective (executing phase).
Specifically, both claims represent alternative solutions to the problem of coordinating
data backup between clusters. Specifically, claims 1 and 13 (new claims 1 and 11) describe
fundamentally different technical implementations (i.e., controlling versus executing)
and involve different components of a data backup system with distinct responsibilities.
Combining claims 1 and 13 (new claims 1 and 11) would result in an unnecessarily
complex and unclear claim.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   2/8
                                                                        BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Therefore, both claims 1 and 13 (new claims 1 and 11) fall under Rule 43(2)(c) of the EPC
which allows more than one independent claim in the same category if they involve
"alternative solutions to a particular problem, where it is not appropriate to cover these
alternatives by a single claim.".

In section 2.2 of the ESOP, the Search Division argues that claim 5 is unclear and that:
"the information that is about the plurality of data sets ... and that is entered by a user
and the first moment" cannot be clearly understood.

The applicant notes that at least new claim 1 (which incorporates the features of previous
claim 5) is clear when read in its entirety. The phrase "configuring, by the control device,
a first data backup policy for a first service based on: information about a plurality of
data sets related to the first service and that is entered by a user; and a first moment"
indicates two separate bases for configuring the backup policy:

       (1) information about data sets that is entered by a user, and

      (2) the first moment.

The first moment refers to a specific point in time at which the data sets exist in the
primary cluster and are to be backed up, as clarified in the subsequent limitation stating
"to back up, to the secondary cluster, the plurality of data sets related to the first service
that are in the primary cluster and that are at the first moment." Therefore, it is clear
from new claim 1 that "the first moment" serves as a temporal identifier for the state of
data to be backed up, not as a modifier of user-entered information.

Thus, at least new claim 1 is clear.

In section 2.3.1 of the ESOP, it is objected that it is not clear how a certain system state,
which is described by a particular set of status information, established by each client,
allows to determine that one of the clients are accessed by an application.

To proceed with the application in a favorable manner, new claim 6 (previous claim 8)
has been amended to specify that the control device in fact determines based on the first
and second status information that that the client accessing the cluster is switched to the
secondary client.

It is clear to the skilled person that the status information obtained through detection of
a client directly corresponds to the status of its corresponding cluster (primary or
secondary) and therefore, based on the identity provided in the status information, the
control device can determine which client is accessing the service.

                                                                                                                             3/8
                                                                        BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Specifically, when the first and second status information is obtained, the controller
determines which cluster is acting as a backup (the one with the secondary identity) and
which cluster is providing the service (the one with the primary identity). With this
information, the controller can determine which client is the one connected to the cluster
providing the service.

Thus, all amendments meet the requirements of Art. 84 EPC.

III. Claim 1

                                                    Novelty

As conceded by the Search Division in 3.1 of the ESOP, D1 does not disclose:
a) a secondary cluster,
b) the primary cluster or the secondary cluster to back up, to the secondary cluster.

D1 discloses methods and systems for using high availability attributes to define data
protection plans, focusing on backing up highly available data within a high availability

cluster.

Specifically, D1 discloses that in column 5 lines 23 to 26 that "each machine 125, 130
includes a high availability agent 140 that performs operations with regards to load
balancing, synchronizing a state between machines 125, 130, and so forth." and in
column 6 lines 59 to 64 discloses that "the HA agent 140 on the primary machine 125
periodically takes a snapshot (a point-in-time image) of the state of the application at
the primary machine, including the state of the high availability data 145, and sends
this snapshot to the high availability agents 140 on the standby machines 130 .. "
Furthermore, the applicant respectfully submits that D1 does not disclose:
c) the primary cluster includes a first component and a second component, the

        secondary cluster includes a third component and a fourth component, the third
        component is used as backup of the first component, the fourth component is
        used as backup of the second component, the first component and the second
        component store data in different formats, the third component and the fourth
        component store data in different formats.
Furthermore, as apparently already conceded by the Search Division, D1 does not
disclose:

                                                                                                                                                                                         4/8
                                                                        BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

d) the plurality of data sets related to the first service comprise a data set processed
        or stored by the first component in the primary cluster and a data set processed
        or stored by the second component in the primary cluster.

Thus, the subject matter of claim 1 is new. The same considerations apply mutatis
mutandis to new claims 14 and 15.

                                             Inventive Step

D1 is considered as closest prior art. D1 does not disclose the above-mentioned
distinguishing features a) to d).

The distinguishing features have the technical effect that when service data of multiple
components needs to be synchronized, ensure that the time of service data
synchronization between multiple components is consistent. Therefore, time consistency
is maintained during backup of the same service of a user. This improves reliability of a
data backup system.

Therefore, the objective technical problem can be seen in how to improve reliability of a
data backup system.

Starting from D1, the skilled person would find no hints towards the claimed subject
matter. D1 teaches that the highly available data, that is data determined by a data
protection agent/server, from a high availability cluster may be backed up to a data
protection agent or server. Specifically, D1 discloses in lines 23 to 26 of column 5 that
"each machine 125, 130 includes a high availability agent 140 that performs operations
with regards to load balancing, synchronizing a state between machines 125, 130, and
so forth."

However, D1 does not disclose the feature in the amended claim 1 of the present
application wherein an architecture in which service data in multiple components
synchronization is required. Thus, D1 provides no hints towards how to solve the
problem of in the same way as claim 1.

When starting from D1 and tasked with solving the objective technical problem, the
skilled person might consider D2 to D6. However, D2 to D6 also does not provide any
hints towards the claimed solution. Thus, even if the skilled person were to combine the
prior art known from D1 and D6 to solve the objective technical problem, they would not
be able to arrive at the claimed subject-matter.

                                                                                                                                                                                         5/8
                                                                         BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

The same considerations apply mutatis mutandis to claims 14 and 15, which therefore
also rely on an inventive step.

IV. Claim 11

                                                     Novelty

As conceded by the Search Division in Section 4.1 of the ESOP, D3 does not disclose:

e) obtaining, by the primary cluster, an instruction delivered by the control device,
        wherein the instruction comprises the information about the plurality of data
        sets related to the first service and the first moment,

f) backing up, by the primary cluster to the secondary cluster based on the
        instruction, the plurality of data sets related to the first service that are in the
        primary cluster and that are at the first moment.

Meanwhile, the applicant respectfully submits that, D3 does not disclose:

g) the primary cluster includes a first component and a second component, the
        secondary cluster includes a third component and a fourth component, the third
        component is used as backup of the first component, the fourth component is
        used as backup of the second component, the first component and the second
        component store data in different formats, the third component and the fourth
        component store data in different formats;

h) configuring, by the control device, a first data backup policy for a first service
        based on: information about a plurality of data sets related to the first service
        and that is entered by a user; and a first moment, wherein the plurality of data
        sets related to the first service comprise a data set processed or stored by the
        first component in the primary cluster and a data set processed or stored by the
        second component in the primary cluster.

As noted by the Search Division in Section 6.4.1 of the ESOP, D3 discloses "data
synchronization between clusters ... according to pre-set rules". However, D3 does not
disclose feature g) of new claim 1 of the present application. The feature specifies an
architecture in which service data in multiple components synchronization is required.
Thus, D3 provides no hints towards this kind of architecture.

Thus, the subject matter of claim 11 is new. The same considerations apply mutatis
mutandis to new claim 14.

                                                                                                                                                                                         6/8
                                                                        BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

                                       Inventive Step

D3 is considered as closest prior art. D1 does not disclose the above-mentioned
distinguishing features e) to h).

The distinguishing features have the technical effect that when service data of multiple
components needs to be synchronized, ensure that the time of service data
synchronization between multiple components is consistent. Therefore, time consistency
is maintained during backup of the same service of a user. This improves reliability of a
data backup system.

Therefore, the objective technical problem can be seen in how to improve reliability of a
data backup system.

Starting from D3, the skilled person would find no hints towards the claimed solution.
D3 teaches that by synchronizing data defined by pre-set rules between a main and a
backup cluster, the backup cluster may take over the responsibilities of the main cluster
when the main cluster fails. However, D3 provides no hints towards the distinguishing
features of new claim 1 of the present application. Specifically, D3 does not provide any
hints towards feature g) which specifies an architecture in which service data in multiple
components synchronization is required. Thus, D3 provides no hints towards how to
solve the objective technical problem in the same way as new claim 11.

To solve the objective technical problem, the skilled person might come across D2 when
starting from D3. Specifically, D2 focuses on scalable cloud backup using a coordinator
process and worker processes to package data for cloud storage. However, D2 provides
no hints towards the claimed solution. Thus, even if the skilled person were to combine
the prior art known from D3 and D2 to solve the objective technical problem, they would
not be able to arrive at the claimed subject-matter.

To solve the objective technical problem, the skilled person might come across D4 when
starting from D3. D4 focuses on remote copying of data based on policy tags to reduce
resource or processing load. However, D4 also does not provide any hints towards the
claimed solution. Thus, even if the skilled person were to combine the prior art known
from D3 and D4 to solve the objective technical problem, they would not be able to arrive
at the claimed subject-matter.

To solve the objective technical problem, the skilled person might come across D5 when
starting from D3. D5 discusses synchronizing the clock time of all nodes in a cluster to
ensure they are in sync with a standard external time server, which is unrelated to the
backup and synchronization of user data between primary and secondary clusters as

                                                                                                                                                                                           7/8
                                                                        BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

claimed. Thus, even if the skilled person were to combine the prior art known from D3
and D5 to solve the objective technical problem, they would at an alternative solution.

To solve the objective technical problem, the skilled person might come across D6 when
starting from D3. D6 focuses on ensuring continuity of user services through redundancy
and backup mechanisms involving cloud devices, which is different from the claimed
method of backing up data sets related to a service based on a specific backup policy and
synchronizing user data. Thus, even if the skilled person were to combine the prior art
known from D3 and D6 to solve the objective technical problem, they would not be able
to arrive at the claimed subject-matter.

The same considerations apply mutatis mutandis to claim 14, which therefore also relies

on an inventive step.

V. Conclusion

In view of the amendments made and the above explanations, it is believed that the
application is now in a state acceptable for grant. Should the Examining Division,
nevertheless, still see deficiencies in the documents on file, it is kindly asked to give the
applicant the opportunity to file further arguments and, if necessary, amendments.
Minor issues could be discussed by telephone.

Only as a measure of precaution,

                                         Oral Proceedings

are herewith requested. In this event, it is further requested that the Oral Proceedings be
either held in Munich, or by videoconference.

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Mathias Hof

Dr. Matthias Hofmann

Enclosures:
.New claims 1 to 15, clean copy
· New claims 1 to 15, marked-up version
· New description pages 1 to 9, clean copy
· New description pages, marked-up version

                                                                                                                                                                                                  8/8
