                                                           BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 Miinchen Germany  1hr Zeichen/your ref.                                                   Dr. Ute Kilger

Mg                                                         20764639-9                                                              Pettenkoferstrafie 22
                                                                                                                                   80336 Miinchen
Europaisches Patentamt                                     Ihre Nachricht / your letter
80298 Miinchen                                                                                                                     Germany
                                                           Unser Zeichen/ our ref.
                                                                                                                                   T +49--89 559680
                                                           T75093WOEP                                                              F +49--89--559685090

                                                                                                                         Miinchen  kilger@boehmert.de
                                                                                                                                   www.boehmert.de
                                                                                           17.10.2022
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ing. Karl Boehmert PA(18994973)
European Patent Application 20764639.9                                                                                             Dip|.-|ng. Albert Boehmert PA (190271993)
THERAPY GUIDANCE AND/OR THERAPY MONITORING                                                                                         \Mlhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA` Bremen
FOR TREATMENT OF SHOCK                                                                                                             Dr.-|ng. Walter Hoormann PAfi Bremen
4TEEN4 Pharmaceuticals GmbH                                                                                                        Prof. Dr. Heinz Goddar PAfi Munchen` Shanghai
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PAfi Muflchefl
This refers to the Communication pursuant to Rules 16111) and                                                                      Wolf--Dieter Kuntze RA` Bremen
162 EPC dated April 7, 2022                                                                                                        Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA` Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Eva Liesegang PAfi Muflchefl
Enclosed herewith is an amended set of 21 claims (marked-up and                                                                    Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Stefan Schohe PAfi Muflchefl
clean copy respectively) addressing the objections raised by the                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PAfi Bietefetd
Examiner. It is requested that the enclosed amended documents be                                                                   Dr. Martin \Mrtz RA` Dussetdorf` Bemn
taken as basis for the future examination of this application.                                                                     Dr. CarI-Richard Haarmann RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Christian W. Appelt PAfi Muflchefl
     1. AMENDMENTS TO THE CLAIMS                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr.-|ng. Uwe Manasse PAfi Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Bittner PAfi Berhn
a) Claim 14 has been amended by changing the term "shoe " t0                                                                       Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA` Munchen` Pans
     "refractory shock".                                                                                                           Dip|.-Biol. Dr. Jan B. KrauB PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PAfi Muflchefl
     The basis for this amendment can be found, e.g., on page 1, lines                                                             Dip|.-Chem. Dr. Kad-Heinz B. Metten PAfi Frankfurt
     3-7 and page 13,1ines 1-11.                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Nils T. F. Schmid PAfi Dea` Munchen` Pans
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA` Lic en droit` Muflchefl
b) Claim 6 has been amended by changing the term "a treatment is                                                                   Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA` Bemn` Nicante
    initiated and/or maintained and/or withheld and/ or terminated"                                                                Dip|.-Chem. Dr. Volker Schulz PAfi Bremen
     to "a treatment is M initiated and/or maintained and/or                                                                       Dr. Martin Schaefer RA` Bemn
    withheld and/ or terminated".                                                                                                  Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Michael Hartig PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Steffen Schmidt PAfi Muflchefl
     Claims 9 to 12 have been amended analogously.                                                                                 Dr. Andreas Lucke PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Chem. Dr. Ute Kilger PAfi Berhn
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschafl mbB - Patentanwélte Rechtsanwélte - AG Bremen-PR 358 HR                                   Malte Nentwig, LL.M. RA` Bremen
Miinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Diisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Paris - Shanghai                                     Dr. Rudolf Backenholt, LL.M. RA` Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Peter GroB, LL.M. RA` Munchen` Ahcante
Information about data protection and your rights as data subjects: www.boehmert.com/data-protection                               Dip|.-|ng. Felix Hermann PAfi Muflchefl
General terms and conditions: www.boehmert.com/termsandconditions                                                                  Dr. ij`m Bahlmann RA` Munchen` Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Kretschmann PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Michael Ruberg, LL.M. RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PAfi Dussetdorf
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Biol. Dr. David Kuttenkeuler PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Chem. Dr. Martin Erbacher PAfi Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Hermann PAfi Frankfurt Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebastian Engels RA` Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Hofmann PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Florian Malescha, M.Sc. PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA` Bremen

                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PAfi Frankfurt Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Katrin Seibt RA` Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Xia Pfaffenzeller PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Catharina Gb`tz RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Fritz Jetzek PA` Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyurek PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lars Eggersdorfer RA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Yannick Schutt, M.Sc. Inform. PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Simon Comet PAfi Dussetdorf
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PAfi Bemn
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Chem. Robert Bernin PAfi Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|ng. Jan Gijring PA`, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA` Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flentje PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lennart-Knud Liefeith PAfi Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara Gwinner PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Alexander Thamer RA` Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Paul Schieler, M.Sc. PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Michael Rubsamen PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Michael Lohse PAfi Muflchefl
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Jonas Boschung, M.Sc., M.Sc. PAfi Dussetdorf
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Adrian Steffens PAfi Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Melanie Muller RA` Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-Phys. Dr. Giulio Schober PA` Muflchefl

                                                                                                                                   PA Patentanwan/Patem Attorney *European Patent Attorney
                                                                                                                                   RA Rechtsanwan/Attomey at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   M Agente de \a Propiedad \ndustnai (Spanien / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Vertretung vordem EU`PO , Marken und Designs
                                                                                                                                   Representation at EU`PO iTrade marks and Designs
                                              §§§ BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

    This subject matter is supported at least by claim 5 and the disclosure in the first
     paragraph on page 11 0f the present description, which reads (emphasis added):

         [A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a] method for
         predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into
         shock or that has developed shock according to the present invention, wherein
         said method is used for initiation and/or termination and/ or stratification
         and/or guidance of treatment.

     It is clearly stated that the method of the present invention may be used for
     stratification and/or guidance of treatment. With respect to treatment, stratification
     means in essence, based on the outcome of the determination of a biomarker in a
     patient, assigning said patient either into the group that is to receive a treatment or
     not, or in other words, instructing the physician whether for said patient treatment
     is to be initiated and/or maintained and/or withheld and/or terminated.

C) Previous claims 20 to 23 (present claims 17 to 20) have been reworded into purpose-
     related-product format in accordance with Art. 54(5) EPC. Consequently, the back-
     references have been adapted from the previous method of treatment claims to the
     corresponding purpose-related-product claims.

d) Previous claims 17-19 and 24 have been deleted.

6) The numbering of the remaining claims and any back-references therein has been
     adapted in accordance with the above amendments.

As laid out above, all amendments are in accordance with Alt 123(2) EPC.

      2. NOVELTY

a) Claims 1-12 and 25 were considered not novel in View of D2.

     Present claim 1 relates to a specific method for predicting 0r diagnosing refractory
     shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or that has developed shock.

     D2 fails to establish the link between the risk of refractory shock in a subject that
     either runs into shock or that has developed shock and the level of DPP3. D2 merely
     refers to the link between DPP3 level and sepsis (see D2, "Results", second to last
     sentence: "Septic patients show significantly increased DPP3 plasma activity at
     hospital admission"). D2 is in fact focused on the development of a novel method of
     measuring DPP3 activity and concentration (see D2, "Background", last sentence).
                                              §§§ BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

     Hence, D2 does not disclose all features of present claim 1 and the subject matter of
     present claim 1 and dependent claims 2--12 is novel in view of D2.

    The above arguments apply, mutatis mutandis, to present claim 21 (previous claim
     25).

b) Claims 13 and 17 were considered not novel in view of D3.

     D3 concerns a review of therapeutic strategies for high-dose vasopressor-dependent
     shock (title). The clinical use of vasopressors such as arginine vasopressin for the
    treatment of refractory shock (see p. 4, under headline "Arginine Vasopressin"), as
    well as of other vasopressors for said purpose, is described.

     Present claim 13 relates to a vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a subject that
     either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said subject has a level
     of DPP3 [...] that is below a predetermined threshold [...] (and conversely,
     vasopressor treatment is withheld when DPP3 is above said threshold). This amounts
    to a stratification of the patients into a) patients that receive vasopressor treatment
     and b) patients that do not receive such treatment.

     D3 does not describe a vasopressor for the aforementioned use, let alone for use in
     patients that have been stratified in dependance 0f DPP3 levels. In fact, DPP3 is not
     mentioned at all in D3. Hence, D3 does not disclose all features of present claim 13
     and the subject matter of present claim 13 and dependent claims 14-16 is novel in
     View of D3.

    The obj ection over previous claim 17 is moot in View of its deletion.

     3. INVENTIVE STEP

a) Present claim 1 relates to a specific method for predicting 0r diagnosing refractory
     shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or that has developed shock.

    As detailed above, D2 is silent on refractory shock and fails to establish the link
    between the risk of refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or that
     has developed shock and the level of DPP3.

    Accordingly, the skilled person could not have obtained any indication of the
     presently claimed subject matter relating to refractory shock, from D2, and the
     subj ect matter of present claim 1 is consequently non-obvious, i.e., inventive in view
     of D2.
                                              §§§ BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

     Claims 2-12 are directly dependent on claim 1. Claims 13-20 are directed to medical
     uses of vasopressors 0r inhibitors of the activity of DPP3, wherein the administration
     of the respective medication depends at least on the DPP3 level, determined by a
     method according to present claims 1-11 being in a certain relation to a
     predetermined threshold.

     Consequently, the subject matter of present claim 2-20 is inventive in view of the
     prior art as well.

b) Present claim 21 concerns a method for prognosing an outcome and/or the risk of an
     adverse event in a subject that has developed refractory shock, wherein said method
    is comprising the steps: determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of
     said subj ect; comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
     and correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject,
    wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk
     of said adverse events or, correlating said level of DPP3 with success of a therapy or
    intervention in said subject, wherein a level below a certain threshold is predictive
    for a success of therapy or intervention.

    As detailed above for present claim 1, the prior art is silent on the relation between
     refractory shock and DPP3 levels. Consequently, the above arguments apply, mutatis
     mutandis, t0 the subject matter of claim 21 (previous claim 25), which is inventive in
    View of the prior art.

C) The obj ections raised in points 4.2 and 4.3 of the WO-ISA against Claims 14 and 18,
     and Claims 11-12 and 22-24, respectively, are moot in View of the above.

     4. CLARITY

a) According to the WO-ISA, it is not possible to assess the scope of claims 1, 6-14 and
     20-25 because the value of the predetermined threshold is not defined.

    Applicant respectfully disagrees. Present claim 1 relates to a method for predicting 0r
     diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
     developed shock, wherein said method comprises the steps of

     . determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;
     . comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
    wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as
     having refractory shock if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined
    threshold.
                                           §§§ BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Firstly, one should consider how a threshold value can be established. For example,
the level of DPP3 at baseline can be determined from bodily fluid samples that were
taken from participants in a study. As a result, a distribution of DPP3 levels over the
analyzed study population is obtained. This population can be divided in percentiles,
quintiles or quartiles or terciles, etc. For arguments sake, take the case of quartiles,
meaning the subj ects are grouped into four groups, each comprising the same
number of individuals. Each of these groups has an upper and a lower level of DPP3
as determined in the individuals of the at the extremes (the "ends") of the respective
quartile. Each of the separating levels may be used as a threshold value. In the case
of quartiles, three thresholds are thus obtained.

Each of the four groups will have subjects who end up with refractory shock and
subjects who do not. If the correlation between the increased risk and the level of
DPP3 is significant, then there are significantly more individuals in the group with
the highest DPP31evels (the fourth quartile) who end up with refractory shock than
in the group with the lowest DPP3 levels (the first quartile).

In any case, even in the first quartile, there will still be some subjects who end up
with refractory shock. These individuals are false negatives, because they would be
grouped as (likely) not ending up with refractory shock, while in reality they do. Vice
versa, even in the fourth quartile, there are individuals who will not end up with
refractory shock, i.e. false positives.

Adjusting the threshold value and separating different groups, would change the
number of false positives and false negatives, but never get rid of either one, or even
both occurring. (The only way of avoiding false positives or false negatives would be
to either designate all subjects as "ends up with refractory shock", or designate all
subjects as "does not end up with refractory shock", which is of course renders the
grouping meaningless.)

If a physician is very risk adverse and rather prefers to "oveItreat" a given subject,
he/she might be inclined to choose a lower threshold, e.g., the threshold between the
second and third quartile in the above example as the relevant threshold for
predicting whether the subj ect end up with refractory shock. The physician will then
"oveItreat" quite a number of subj ects. On the other hand, the physician might also
be of the opinion that only people with very high level should be predicted as high-
risk subjects. Accordingly, the physician may choose the higher threshold level
between the third and fourth quartile. Under these circumstances, the physician
would "oveItreat" a smaller number of subj ects but might oversee some individuals
at risk.
                                           §§§ BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

The terms "false positive" and "false negative" may also be expressed as "sensitivity"
and "specificity" of the method. Choosing a threshold corresponding to high
sensitivity will result in a lot of false positives, while avoiding missing true positives.
One the other hand, choosing a threshold corresponding to high specificity will result
in the opposite. Specificity and sensitivity of a method are opposing trends. This
means, that a physician will choose a threshold that fits the specificity and the
sensitivity required for the respective circumstances and medical question. In each
setting, the physician has to decide whether or not a number of false negatives or
rather false positives are tolerable.

It should also be kept in mind that the decision how many false positives or false
negatives are acceptable highly depends not only on the severity of the medical
condition to be treated, but also on the consequences of a treatment. As a drastic
illustrative example, take an assessment of "has a (high) risk of breast cancer --
yes/no". If the consequence of an assessment of "has a risk of cancer" is a surgery or
even amputation of the breast, it is certainly preferable to avoid false positives, in
order to spare any given subject an unnecessary surgery or amputation. The
threshold would thus be set comparably high. If however, the consequence of an
assessment of "has a risk of cancer" is that the subject should submit to regular
screenings, it would be more important to avoid false negatives, to assure that as few
individuals as possible "slip through the cracks" of the screening. The threshold
would thus be set comparably low.

This consequence of such an assignment, i.e., what happens after the subject is
assigned to either group, and consequently whether the threshold should be higher
or lower, is completely out of the control of the Applicant, and it is clear that it would
be unreasonable to limit the claims to a specific threshold in the present claims.

In summary, if in the present claims the threshold were to be restricted, e.g., to a
specific numerical value, the scope of such claims would be unduly limited and
effectively render the claim (and a resulting patent) practically meaningless.

In addition, the results of an assay, i.e., the obtained values, of course may vary
depending on the specific conditions the assay is run under, which is also addressed
in the description on page 18, line 4 et seqq.

Finally, and importantly, choosing the appropriate threshold for the respective
medical question comes down to a routine task involving. The skilled person, who
would in this case be a medical statistician or a team comprising a physician and a
statistician, can determine the threshold based on the statistical data obtained from
         §§§ BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

     a study population, as mentioned above, and having the medical question in mind.
    While this may involve a certain amount of practical effort, it is still a routine task.

     It is stated for sake of completeness that the above arguments apply to aspects
     relating to ADM-NH2 levels, and/or to the subject being "diagnosed as having
     refractory shock", etc., and to claims 6-14 and 20-25, mutatis mutandis.

     In view of the aspects detailed above, it is apparent that the present claims define the
     matter for which protection is sought clearly.

b) Claims 6 to 12 were considered unclear for allegedly being directed to a method of
     diagnosis of refractory shock wherein the claims also relate to the treatment of a
    patient.

    As detailed above, amended claims 6 to 12 state that the treatment is to be initiated
     and/or maintained and/or withheld and/or terminated, based on the outcome of the
     determination of the level of DPP3 0r Pro-adrenomedullin 0r fragments thereof. In
     other words, based on the outcome of the aforementioned determination, the
     information is given to the treating physician that treatment is m initiated and/or
     maintained and/or withheld and/or terminated. The methods of amended claims 6
    to 12 therefore do not comprise treatment steps per se.

    The obj ection has therefore been rendered moot.

   5. REQUESTS

With the above explanations the Applicant has met the requirements set forth in the
Communication.

If, however, the Examining Division does not agree with the above, it is requested that
either a further Communication pursuant to Art. 94(3) EPC or a summons to attend oral
proceedings according to Art. 116(1) EPC be issued. If deemed expedient, an informal
interview is requested. The undersigned is prepared to discuss minor amendments over
the phone.

BOfM RT& OEHMERT

Drjfie ` g
Pate t t ney

Enclosures:
-- Amended claims (marked-up and clean copy)

112.279                                                                                        7/7
