T75093W0EP                                          BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT
EP 2o764639.9  CLAIMS {marked-upt

1. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:
   0 determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;
   0 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
   wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as having refractory
        shock if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

2. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claim 1, wherein said shock is selected from the group
    comprising shock due to hypovolemia, cardiogenic shock, obstructive shock and distributive shock,
    in particular cardiogenic shock or septic shock.

3. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said shock is a vasopressor-resistant
    shock.

4. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claims 1 to 3, wherein
    0 in case of cardiogenic shock said subject may have suffered an acute coronary syndrome (e.g.
        acute myocardial infarction) or wherein said subject has heart failure (e.g. acute decompensated
        heart failure), myocarditis, arrhythmia, cardiomyopathy, valvular heart disease, aOItic dissection
        with acute a01tic stenosis, traumatic chordal rupture or massive pulmonary embolism, or
    0 in case of hypovolemic shock said subject may have suffered a hemorrhagic disease including
        gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured abdominal aOItic aneurysm,
        tumor eroding into a maj or blood vessel) and spontaneous bleeding in the setting of anticoagulant
        use or a non-hemorrhagic disease including vomiting, diarrhea, renal loss, skin losses/insensible
        losses (e.g. bums, heat stroke) or third-spaee loss in the setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal
         obstruction, trauma, or
    0 in case of obstructive shock said patient may have suffered a cardiac tamponade, tension
        pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism or aOItic stenosis, or
    0 in case of distributive shock said patient may have septic shock, neurogenic shock, anaphylactic
         shock or shock due to adrenal crisis.
5. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claims 1 to 4, wherein said method is used for initiation and/or
    termination and/ or stratification and/or guidance of treatment.

6. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein a treatment is to be initiated
    and/or maintained and/or withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is above said
    predetermined thre shold.

7. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claim 6, wherein said treatment is selected from the group of
    vasopressors, Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3
    activity and anti-adrenomedullin antibodies or anti-adrenomedullin antibody fragments.

8. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein either the level of DPP3 protein
    and/or the level of active DPP3 is determined and compared to a predetermined threshold, wherein
    the level of DPP3 is determined by contacting said sample of bodily fluid with a capture binder that
    binds specifically to DPP3.

9. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-
    Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is to be initiated
    and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is above a ceItain threshold and/or wherein
    a treatment with vasopressors is to be withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3
    is above said predetermined threshold.

10. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein a treatment with vasopressors is
    to be initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is below a certain threshold
    and/or wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or
    inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is to be withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of
    DPP3 is below said predetermined threshold.
11A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claim 9, wherein in addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin
    or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM
    antibody fragment is to be initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
    fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein atreatment with an anti-
    ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is to be withheld and/ or terminated if the said
    determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

12A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subj ect that either runs into shock or
    that has developed shock according to claim 9, wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or
    anti-ADM antibody fragment and/or Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof
    and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is to be initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-
    adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and said determined
    level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

Mali; Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of refractory shock in a subject that either
    runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of
    bodily fluid of said subject that is above a predetermined threshold when determined by a method
    according to any of claims 1 -- 11, wherein the inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is selected from the
    group comprising anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

i-zlzii Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of refractory shock in a subject that either

    administered in combination with an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or precursor thereof;
    wherein said "immunw is a, minimum which 3:»; uhic m muemte m" to Mensa: an Ammtensmm
    Rem: torw/anist e`tide under hx'simwimi etmtiitiuns. m articular seieeteu from the wow

   gtmmmma

         , emmted flimxs 0fAngimensinmmme man mmst ")0 a tides
         ~ 321mm ")mtides ttmnvrisim Angiutensinufime"3101"~Awtiiiist, 1m Kidd`s?" Whieh umn sciuetiw

               demimz farm the Aimmtensvaeee torwfko'wnist mtide
         _~ aggiflgtgmsimgmm
          ~ anuiuteusm i 01" its humoimzues.
         ~ s3 tides Mth mteeted / ' m acids. e401. hating mteetiiw (mm s at 0110 m mum / ' 0
                WM: 53" mam Dartiauiariw "irtbtectiiw mmws seiected Mam the gmu") mimistiiw m"
               benzwiwxx`mrbmmL twhut`afimmmmmfl 8(th . t}uercm'imetha`ium'earhonfl FMUC .
               'FQHML smash}. and amt tummy haying mtectiiw 9mm "is at mm: or n`mm earhtws'he acid
               9mm 2;. mere tartieuiaflx` henmi esters or twhutfl esters.

         ~ arecmsm "2a: itidca having `5 " (:3 acid suhstitutims. dmietitms" additimm the substitutims
               amt additmm meltidmsr the standard D and L amino acids and mmdified amino acids. such
               as", for" mam 339. amidated mid amtxriamd amine): amidst" wherein the them, emit: mm 0? the
                base "it: With: sec; Hence is maintained at a hammemmimm useful level.

M3713 Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of refractory shock in a subject that either

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising
    angiotensin I, angiotensin II, angiotensin III, angiotensin IV, in patticular angiotensin 11.

    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to 64mimwixhwmgjggimgmifimtgmifi, wherein in
    said therapy a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of
    DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

W13 Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of refractory shock in a subject that either
    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to WWWWmiiiyiammifimmj{2, wherein in
    addition in said therapy the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined in a
    sample of bodily fluid of said subject and wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-
    ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
    fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein atreatment with an anti-
    ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated ifthe said determined
    level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.
é}-i~;_13§w A method for prognosing an outcome and/or the risk of an adverse event in a subj ect that has
    developed refractory shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:
    0 determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;
    0 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
    0 correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an
        elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk of said adverse events
        or,
    0 correlating said level of DPP3 with success of a therapy or intervention in said subject, wherein
        a level below a ceitain threshold is predictive for a success of therapy or intervention.
