                                                           BOEHMERT 8: BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT P.O.Box 150308 80043 Miinchen Germany  1hr Zeichen/your ref.                                                   Dr. Ute Kilger

Online Filing                                              207646399                                                               Pettenkoferstrafie 22

Europaisches Patentamt                                     lhre Nachricht / your letter                                            80336 Miinchen
80298 Miinchen                                                                                                                     Germany
                                                           Unser Zeichen/ our ref.
                                                                                                                                   T +49'89 559680
                                                           T75093WOEP                                                              F +49'89'559685090

                                                                                                                         Miinchen  kilger@boehmert.de
                                                                                                                                   www.boehmert.de
                                                                  19.09.2024
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Ing. Karl Boehmert PAmsggrlgn)
European Patent Application 20764639.9                                                                                             Dipl.-|ng. Albert Boehmert PA (190271993)
THERAPY GUIDANCE AND/OR THERAPY MONITORING                                                                                         \Mlhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA. Bremen
FOR TREATMENT OF SHOCK                                                                                                             Dr.-|ng. Walter Hoormann PA`. Bremen
4TEEN4 Pharmaceuticals GmbH                                                                                                        Prof. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA`. Munchen. Shanghal
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Roland Liesegang PA`. Munchen (198772023)
On the communication pursuant to Art. 9413) EPC dated                                                                              Wolf--Dieter Kuntze RA. Bremen
May 22, 2024:                                                                                                                      Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-|ng. Eva Liesegang PA`. Munchen
It is requested to proceed with the examination on the basis of new                                                                Dr.-|ng. Matthias Philipp PA`. Blelefeld
claims 1 to 18 replacing the claims on file and the remaining                                                                      Dr. Martin \Mrtz RA. Dusseldorf. Berhn
documents as currently on file.                                                                                                    Dr. Carl-Richard Haarmann RA. Munchen. Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Christian W. Appelt PA`. Munchen
I.  Amendments                                                                                                                     DipI.-Phys. Dr.--|ng. Uwe Manasse PA`. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Bittner PA`. Berlm
Claims 13, 18 and 20 have been deleted.                                                                                            Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA. Munchen. Pans
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA`. Munchen
Present claim 14 (previous claim 15) has been amended by including a                                                               DipI.-Chem. Dr. KarI-Heinz B. Metten PA`. Frankfurt
definition of the term "precursor", based on the disclosure in the                                                                 Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA. Llc en dron. Munchen
paragraphs bridging pages 31 and 32 0f the W0 publication.                                                                         Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA. Berhn. Ahcante
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Volker Schulz PA`. Bremen
The numbering of the remaining claims and back-references have                                                                     Dr. Martin Schaefer RA. Berhn
been adapted to the above amendments as necessary.                                                                                 DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Hartig PA`. Munchen. Pans
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Steffen Schmidt PA`. Munchen
No matter going beyond what was in the application documents as                                                                    Dr. Andreas Lucke PA`. Munchen
filed has been added by the amendment. Thus, all amendments meet                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Ute Kilger PA`. Berlm
the requirements of Art. 123(2) EPC.                                                                                               Malte Nentwig, LL.M. RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Rudolf Backenholt, LL.M. RA. Bremen
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwalmpartnerschafl mbB - Patentanwélte Rechtsanwélte - AG Bremen-PR358 HB                                     Peter GroB, LL.M. RA. Munchen. Ahcante
Miinchen - Bremen - Berlin - Diisseldorf - Frankfurt - Bielefeld - Alicante - Paris - Shanghai                                     Dipl.-|ng. Felix Hermann PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Dennis Kretschmann PA`. Munchen
Information about data protection and your rights as data subjects: WWW.boehmert.com/data-protection                               Dr. Michael Ruberg, LL.M. RA. Munchen. Pans
General terms and conditions: WWW.boehmeIt.com/termsandconditions                                                                  DipI.-Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA`. Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. Martin Erbacher PA`. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA`. Frankfurt. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Sebastian Engels RA. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Silke Freund RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Matthias Hofmann PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mario Araujo" PA`. Munchen

                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Klaus Seranski PA`. Frankfurt. Munchen (201772024)
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-|ng. Oliver Tarvenkorn PA`. Dusseldorf. Blelefeld
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Katrin Seibt RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Biochem. Dr. Sibylla M. Grahn PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Xia Pfaffenzeller PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dip|.-|nform. Fritz Jetzek PA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Claudia Deppe RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA. Berhn. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Mehmet Bengi-Akyurek PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lars Eggersdorfer RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-|ng. Simon Cornet PA`. Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-|ng. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA`. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Robert Bernin PA`. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-|ng. Jan Gb`ring PA`, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Hanno Flentje PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lennart-Knud Liefeith PA`. Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Lara Gwinner PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Alexander Thamer RA. Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Michael Rubsamen PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Michael Lohse PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Jonas Boschung, M.Sc., M.Sc. PA`. Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Adrian Steffens PA`. Berlm
                                                                                                                                   Melanie Muller RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. Giulio Schober PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Micheline Verwohlt RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Nina Rueker RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Makiko Maruyama`, M.S(L Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Théodore Leyfi Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Oleg Lebedev". Berhn
                                                                                                                                   Fabio Adinolfi RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Chem. Dr. José M. Pfizer PA`. Berhn. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Malte \Mndeler, LL.M. 050. RA. Bremen
                                                                                                                                   Dipl.-|ng. Bernhard Jochim PA. Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Julian Wernicke, LL.M. (UCT) RA. Berhn
                                                                                                                                   DipI.-Phys. Dr. habil. Daniel Niesner PA`. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Hannah Eckermann, LL.M. RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Stella Euchner RA. Munchen
                                                                                                                                   Dr. Jan Bohl, M.Sc. PA. Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                   Dr.-|ng. Dominik Denker, M.Sc. PA. Dusseldorf

                                                                                                                                   PA Patentanwalt/Patem Attorney *European Patent Attorney
                                                                                                                                   RA Rechtsanwalt/Attomey at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                   M Ageme de la Propledad lndusmal (Spamen / Spam)
                                                                                                                                   Vertretung vor dem EUlPO 1 Marken und Deslgns
                                                                                                                                   Representauon at EUlPO iTrade marks and Deslgns
                                                                   3 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

II. Clarity

1) In section 2.1 of the official communication, it is objected that the term
     "predetermined threshold" it is not defined.

    Applicant respectfully disagrees and submits that it is neither helpful norjustified
    to limit the claims to specific thresholds or values.

    It is common practice for a medical practitioner to choose different thresholds in
    order to include or exclude patients based on these thresholds. Depending on how
    the selected thresholds are set, certain numbers of false positive and false
    negative patients are included. Here, the medical practitioner must weigh the risk
    in order to decide to which extent the selected threshold values affect the number
    of false-positive and false-negative patients for a specific medical question.

    However, it cannot be excluded that different medical practitioners choose
    different threshold values for the same medical indication and are influenced by
    their individual judgement and experience. In medical practice, a further medical
    treatment is arranged by the medical practitioner based on the concentration of
    the biomarker determined by the laboratory. This results in, for example, that the
    medical practitioner has to decide whether the administration of a certain
    treatment is sufficient or whether other medical treatments have to be initiated.
    The decision on how the patients are divided into risk groups is taken by the
    medical practitioner: For example he could divide the patients into three different
    categories based on the risk: High-risk patients, and low-risk patients. The
     medical practitioner then sets, for example, a threshold value, which is based on
    the percentile of the statistical calculations. However, he could also define several
    risk groups of the patients and set two or three threshold values, egg. to
    distinguish high, medium and low risk groups.

    Present examples 9 and 11 show that within the group of patients with cardiogenic
    shock and septic shock, respectively, patients with DPP3 levels in the 3rd quartile
    have a significantly higher occurrence of refractory shock than patients with
     lower DPP3 levels (also see Figs. 13 and 15). The absolute cutoffs are 59.1 ng/ ml
    in the cardiogenic shock patients and 48.4 ng/mL in septic shock patients
    respectively.

    Moreover, a medical practitioner may choose the threshold depending on
    whether more false-positive 0r false-negative results are considered tolerable.
    The medical practitioner will initiate medical treatment based on the division of
                                                               3 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

the patients into the respective risk group. This leads to the conclusion that the
specific value of a threshold value can vary for good reasons.

It is also emphasized that fixing the threshold to an absolute number would
unduly restrict the scope of the claims, which could then be easily circumvented.
A suspected infringer could, by choosing a slightly different threshold, draw
similar conclusions regarding the number of false positives or false negatives and
thus circumvent the present invention. The applicant therefore kindly argues that
the term "predetermined threshold" is sufficiently clear for the medical
practitioner as a specialist to use the present invention and his experience to
choose a suitable threshold and initiate appropriate treatment.

Finally, it is a principle well established by case law that claims must be clear for
the sake of legal certainty, as their purpose is to enable the protection conferred
by the patent to be determined. In the case of the present claims, the skilled
person can determine the protection conferred by claim 1 without undue burden.
Incidentally, it has also been accepted in a number of similar patents that the
threshold need not be defined to have a specific value. Please, see in this regard
e.g. granted patents EP2943792, EP2976646 and EP2823316. These are a small
selection of granted patents where the language like "... wherein a level above a
threshold is ..." has been accepted by the EPO without demanding the limitation
of such a claim to a specific threshold which would make the scope of protection
worthless. There is no apparent reason to decide otherwise in the present case.

The terms "inhibitors of the DPP3 activity" or "inhibitor of the activity of DPP3"
were considered not clear.

Applicant respectfully disagrees. According to long-standing case law of the
Boards of Appeal, the claims are to be interpreted from the Viewpoint of the
skilled person, who reads the claims with the mind willing to understand, not a
mind desirous of misunderstanding (see e.g. section 6.1 of the present issue of the
case law of the Boards of Appeal).

It is clear in View of the terms plain meaning, and in particular in View of the
application as filed (see e.g. the description of activity measurement of DPP3 and
determination of how said activity is inhibited by inhibitors under the present
invention) that "DPP3 activity" or "activity of DPP3" refers to the enzymatic
activity, not to a known or (partially) unknown physiological role, as seems to be
insinuated by the Examining Division.
                                                                        3 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

         The skilled person also knows how to determine said activity and its inhibition,
         and is provided with additional information in the present application.
         The term is therefore clear in the meaning of Article 84 EPC.
     3) The objection over previous claims 13 and 18 is moot in View of their deletion.

     4) In section 2.4 of the official communication, it is obj ected that it is not clear which
          compounds fall within the scope of the term "precursor of Angiotensin receptor
          agonists" in previous claims 15-16 and 18.
          Corresponding present claims 14 and 15 have been amended as detailed above to
          further define the "precursor of Angiotensin receptor agonists", thus overcoming
         the objection.
         The objection over previous claim 18 is moot in View of its deletion.

     III. Novelty

The objection brought forward in item 3.5 of the Office Action, and Item 3 0f the Office
Action dated 20.11.2023 respectively, is moot in view of the deletion of claim 13.
Thus, the claimed subject matter is new.

     IV. Inventive Step
D2 is considered as closest prior art.
While D2 shows that DPP3 is elevated in septic shock, there is no indication regarding
refractory shock. Thus, the technical feature distinguishing the present invention from
D2 is predicting 0r diagnosing specifically refractory shock with DPP3, or treating the
same with a DPP3 inhibitor.

Even if a certain biomarker is known to be elevated in shock, this is no indication that
said biomarker can differentiate between refractory and non-refractory shock within a
certain shock group.
For instance, present examples 9 and 11 demonstrate that within the group of patients
with cardiogenic shock and septic shock, respectively, patients with DPP3 levels in the
3rd quartile have a significantly higher occurrence of refractory shock than patients with
lower DPP31eve1s (also see Figs. 13 and 15).

                                                                                                                                                                                 4/5
                                            3 BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

None of the cited prior art documents disclose the connection between DPP3 and
refractogy shock. The present invention demonstrates for the first time that DPP3 is
higher in patients with refractory shock than in shock patients without refractory shock
and demonstrates the correlation with organ failure. This was simply not foreseeable
from the prior art.

Thus, even if the skilled person would not arrive at the solution provided by claim 1 from
the teaching of any of the cited prior art documents taken alone or in combination, which
is therefore based on an inventive step.

The same considerations apply mutatis mutandis to claims 14 and 18, which are
therefore likewise based on an inventive step.

V.       Conclusion

In view of the amendments made and the above explanations, it is believed that the
application is now in a state acceptable for grant. Should the Examining Division,
nevertheless, still see deficiencies in the documents on file, it is kindly asked to give the
applicant the opportunity to file further arguments and, if necessary, amendments.
Minor issues could be discussed by telephone.

Only as a measure of precaution,

                          Oral Proceedings

Ware herewith requested.

BOEHMERT7BOEHMERT

Dr. Uétezééer
Patent Attorney

Enclosures:
0 New claims 1 to 18 (clean copy)
0 New claims 1 to 18 (marked-up copy)

112.225
