T75093WOEP                     BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

EP 20764639.9

               CLAIMS (clean)

1. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:
    determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject; said sample of bodily
       fluid is selected from the group of whole blood, plasma, and serum;
    comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
   wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as having refractory
       shock if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

2. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to claim 1, wherein said shock is selected from the group
   comprising shock due to hypovolemia, cardiogenic shock, obstructive shock and distributive shock,
   in particular cardiogenic shock or septic shock.

3. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said shock is a vasopressor-resistant
   shock.

4. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to claims 1 to 3, wherein
    in case of cardiogenic shock said subject may have suffered an acute coronary syndrome (e.g.
       acute myocardial infarction) or wherein said subject has heart failure (e.g. acute decompensated
      heart failure), myocarditis, arrhythmia, cardiomyopathy, valvular heart disease, aortic dissection
       with acute aortic stenosis, traumatic chordal rupture or massive pulmonary embolism, or
   . in case of hypovolemic shock said subject may have suffered a hemorrhagic disease including
       gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm,
       tumor eroding into a major blood vessel) and spontaneous bleeding in the setting of anticoagulant
       use or a non-hemorrhagic disease including vomiting, diarrhea, renal loss, skin losses/insensible
      losses (e.g. burns, heat stroke) or third-space loss in the setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal
       obstruction, trauma, or
    in case of obstructive shock said patient may have suffered a cardiac tamponade, tension
       pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism or aortic stenosis, or
   . in case of distributive shock said patient may have septic shock, neurogenic shock, anaphylactic

       shock or shock due to adrenal crisis.
5. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to claims 1 to 4, wherein said method is used for initiation and/or
   termination and/ or stratification and/or guidance of treatment.

6. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-
   Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is

   initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is above a certain threshold
   and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said
   determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold or wherein a treatment with
   vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is below a
   certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or
   precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if
   the said determined level of DPP3 is below said predetermined threshold.

7. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein either the level of DPP3 protein
   and/or the level of active DPP3 is determined and compared to a predetermined threshold, wherein
   the level of DPP3 is determined by contacting said sample of bodily fluid with a capture binder that
   binds specifically to DPP3.

8. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to claims 1 to 7, wherein in addition the level of Pro-
   adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with an anti-ADM
   antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is to be initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-
   adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a
   treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is to be withheld and/ or
   terminated if the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said
   predetermined threshold.

9. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
   that has developed shock according to claims 1 to 8, wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody
   or anti-ADM antibody fragment and/or Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof
   and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is to be initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-
   adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and said determined
   level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

                                                                                2
10. A method for prognosing an outcome and/or the risk of an adverse event in a subject that has
   developed refractory shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:
    determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject; said sample of bodily
       fluid is selected from the group of whole blood, plasma, and serum;
   . comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
    correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an
       elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk of said adverse events

         or,

    correlating said level of DPP3 with success of a therapy or intervention in said subject, wherein
      a level below a certain threshold is predictive for a success of therapy or intervention.

                                                                       3
