                                                                BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Pettenkoferstraße 22 80336 München Germany  Ihr Zeichen / your ref.                                          Dr. Ute Kilger

Online Filing                                                   20764639.9                                                       Pettenkoferstraße 22
                                                                                                                                 80336 München
Europäisches Patentamt                                          Ihre Nachricht /your letter
80298 München                                                                                                                    Germany
                                                                Unser Zeichen / our ref.
                                                                                                                                 T +49-89 559680
                                                                T75093WOEP                                                       F +49-89-559685090

                                                                                                                        München  kilger@boehmert.de

                                                                             11.04.2025                                          www.boehmert.de

European Patent Application 20764639.9                                                                                           Dr. Ing. Karl Boehmert PA (1899-1973)
THERAPY GUIDANCE AND/OR THERAPY MONITORING                                                                                       Dipl .- Ing. Albert Boehmert PA (1902-1993)
                                                                                                                                 Wilhelm J. H. Stahlberg RA, Bremen
FOR TREATMENT OF SHOCK                                                                                                           Dr .- Ing. Walter Hoormann PA*, Bremen
4TEEN4 Pharmaceuticals GmbH                                                                                                      Prof. Dr. Heinz Goddar PA", Munchen, Shanghai
                                                                                                                                 Wolf-Dieter Kuntze RA, Bremen
This refers to the communication dated March 14, 2025:                                                                           Dr. Ludwig Kouker RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Ing. Eva Liesegang PA*, München
The Examining Division regards the feature ,,a predetermined                                                                     Dr .- Ing. Matthias Philipp PA", Bielefeld
threshold, that is between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3" as                                                                  Dr. Martin Wirtz RA, Düsseldorf, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Carl-Richard Haarmann RA, Munchen, Düsseldorf
unclear.                                                                                                                         Dipl .- Phys. Christian W. Appelt PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr .- Ing. Uwe Manasse PA*, Bremen
We would like to reply thereto in written prior to Oral proceedings to                                                           Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Thomas L. Bittner PA*, Berlin
enable the Examining Division to take our arguments into account as                                                              Dr. Volker Schmitz-Fohrmann, M. JUR. RA, Munchen, Paris
early as possible. We are of course prepared to present the same                                                                 Dipl .- Biochem. Dr. Markus Engelhard PA*, München
during Oral Proceedings.                                                                                                         Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Karl-Heinz B. Metten PA*, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Florian Schwab, LL.M. RA, Lic en droit, Munchen
A person skilled in the art, who is Statistician in the medical field, i.e                                                       Dr. Andreas Dustmann, LL.M. RA, Berlin, Alicante
a biostatistician, interprets the feature ,,a predetermined threshold,                                                           Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Volker Scholz PA*, Bremen
that is between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3" as follows:                                                                    Dr. Martin Schaefer RA, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Michael Hartig PA", Munchen, Paris
The predetermined threshold can have a value between 25 and 150                                                                  Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Steffen Schmidt PA*, München
ng/ml for plasma DPP3, i.e. the predetermined threshold could be for                                                             Dr. Andreas Lucke PA', Munchen
example 30 ng/ml or 40 ng/ml or 50 ng/ml or 140 ng/ml. All these                                                                 Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Ute Kilger PA*, Berlin
thresholds are meaningful for a medical practitioner. The actual                                                                 Malte Nentwig, LL.M. RA, Bremen
determined DPP3 level in a blood sample of a patient may have a value                                                            Dr. Rudolf Bockenholt, LL.M. RA, Bremen
above or below said predetermined threshold. If said actual                                                                      Peter Groß, LL.M. RA, München, Alicante
determined DPP3 level in a blood sample of a patient is above said                                                               Dipl .- Ing. Felix Hermann PA*, München
predetermined threshold then the medical practitioner would                                                                      Dr. Michael Ruberg, LL.M. RA, München, Paris
consider this patient as being in shock or as predicted to run into                                                              Dipl .- Phys. Christoph Angerhausen PA*, Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Inform. Dr. Jakob Valvoda PA", München
shock.                                                                                                                           Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Martin Erbacher PA*, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Daniel Herrmann PA*, Frankfurt, Munchen
BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT Anwaltspartnerschaft mbB . Patentanwälte Rechtsanwälte . AG Bremen-PR 358 HB                                 Dr. Sebastian Engels RA, Berlin
München . Bremen . Berlin . Düsseldorf . Frankfurt . Bielefeld . Alicante . Paris . Shanghai                                     Silke Freund RA, München
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Matthias Hofmann PA", Munchen
Information about data protection and your rights as data subjects: www.boehmert.com/data-protection                             Dr. Eckhard Ratjen, LL.M. RA, Bremen
General terms and conditions: www.boehmert.com/termsandconditions                                                                Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Jin Jeon PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Mario Araujo ** PA*, München

                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Ing. Oliver Tarvenkom PAT, Düsseldorf, Bielefeld
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Katrin Seibt RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Xia Pfaffenzeller PA*, Munchen
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Inform. Fritz Jetzek PA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Anja Ruge, LL.M. RA, Berlin, München
                                                                                                                                 Mehmet Bengi-Akyürek PA", München
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Lars Eggersdorfer RA, München
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Ing. Dr. Sebastian Schlegel PA*, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Chem. Robert Bernin PA*, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Ing. Jan Göring PA', Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Laura Haas, M.Sc. PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Hanno Flentje PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Lara Gwinner PA", Munchen
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Alexander Thamer RA, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Dr .- Ing. Michael Rübsamen PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Michael Lohse PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Dr .- Ing. Jonas Boschung, M.Sc., M.Sc. PA', Dusseldorf
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Adrian Steffens PA*, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Melanie Müller RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. Giulio Schober PA", Munchen
                                                                                                                                 Micheline Verwohlt RA, München
                                                                                                                                 Nina Rücker RA, München
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Makiko Maruyama*, M.Sc., Munchen
                                                                                                                                 Théodore Ley", München
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Oleg Lebedev*, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Chem. Dr. Jose M. Pfizer PA*, Berlin, Munchen
                                                                                                                                 Malte Windeler, LL.M. oec. RA, Bremen
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Ing. Bernhard Jochim PA*, Düsseldorf
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Julian Wernicke, LL.M. (UCT) RA, Berlin
                                                                                                                                 Dipl .- Phys. Dr. habil. Daniel Niesner PA*, München
                                                                                                                                 Hannah Dauer, LL.M. RA, München
                                                                                                                                 Stella Euchner RA, Munchen
                                                                                                                                 Dr. Jan Bohl, M.Sc. PA, Frankfurt
                                                                                                                                 Dr .- Ing. Dominik Denker, M.Sc. PA, Dussel dorf
                                                                                                                                 Victor V. Fetscher, LL.M. (Tel Aviv) RA, München
                                                                                                                                 Hongting Wu PA, München
                                                                                                                                 Dr .- Ing. Thomas Michaelis PA*, München

                                                                                                                                 PA Patentanwalt/Patent Attorney *European Patent Attomey
                                                                                                                                 RA Rechtsanwalt/ Attorney at Law (Germany)
                                                                                                                                 ** Agente de la Propiedad Industrial (Spanien / Spain)
                                                                                                                                 Vertretung vor dem EUIPO - Marken und Designs
                                                                                                                                 Representation at EUIPO - Trade marks and Designs
                                                                   BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Having a look at the declaration of Dr. Oliver Hartmann, exemplary calculations were

made for cut-offs of
    1) 45 ng/ml
    2) 50 ng/ml
    3) 55 ng/ml

Each of these above-mentioned exemplary cut-offs is a value between 25 and 150 ng/ml
for plasma DPP3.
We will explain the meaning of the claim for the threshold 45 ng/ml and threshold 55
ng/ml in the following.

Case 1: threshold 45 ng/ml
Let's assume the medical practitioner would choose the first cut-off that is a value
between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3 and that is 45 ng/ml.
The medical practitioner would then take blood draws from patients and would obtain
plasma therefrom and would then determine the respective DPP3 concentration in the
obtained patient's plasma sample.
A patient having a determined DPP3 concentration of 48 ng/ml would then be ,,above
the predetermined threshold" and the medical practitioner would consider this patient
as being very likely in shock or very likely running into shock.
If another patient had a determined DPP3 concentration of 40 ng/ml the determined
DPP3 value would be "below the predetermined threshold" and the medical practitioner
would consider this patient as being very likely NOT in shock or very likely NOT running

into shock.

Case 2: threshold 55 ng/ml
Let's assume the medical practitioner would choose another cut-off that is a value
between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3 and that is 55 ng/ml.
The medical practitioner would then take blood draws from the same patients and would
obtain plasma therefrom and would then determine the respective DPP3 concentration
in the obtained patient's plasma sample.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   2/7
                                                                   BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

A patient having a determined DPP3 concentration of 48 ng/ml would then be ,,below
the predetermined threshold" and the medical practitioner would consider this patient
NOT as being very likely in shock or NOT very likely running into shock.

If the other patient had a determined DPP3 concentration of 40 ng/ml the determined
DPP3 value would be also with this threshold "below the predetermined threshold" and
the medical practitioner would consider also this patient as being very likely NOT in
shock or very likely NOT running into shock.

Please, consider the following technical terms and the possible cases in diagnostic
methods:

        False positive: The patient is healthy, but the test incorrectly classified them as
         sick.
        True positive: The patient is sick, and the test correctly indicated this.
        True negative: The patient is healthy, and the test correctly indicated this.
        False negative: The patient is sick, but the test incorrectly classified them as

         healthy.

For the sake of our exercise - Let us now assume that the patient having a determined
DPP3 concentration of 48 ng/ml actually runs into shock.

Under this assumption the chosen threshold of 55 ng/ml led to a false negative
conclusion, whereas the threshold of 45 ng/ml led in this case for this patient to a true
positive conclusion.

This does not mean that any of both thresholds would be wrong per se! It was wrong for
this one patient in one case, but statistically for most of the patients the classification
would have been correct, nevertheless. We are talking here about statistics and
probabilities!

Further note, that for each and every threshold within the threshold range there will be
false positives, false negatives, true positives and true negatives.

There is no diagnostic test in this world and no threshold in any diagnostic method that
would allow only true negatives and true positives. For any diagnostic method and any
chosen threshold, you will have a certain number of false negatives and false positives
even though statistically every of the possible threshold is meaningful.

In the following we copied some helpful explanations from Wikipedia:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sensitivity_and_specificity:

                                                                                                                                                                                          3/7
                                                           BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

"The occurrence of false negatives and false positives, true negatives and true
positives for a given method and threshold can be expressed mathematically.
In medicine and statistics, sensitivity and specificity mathematically describe the
accuracy of a test that reports the presence or absence of a medical condition. If
individuals who have the condition are considered "positive" and those who do
not are considered "negative", then sensitivity is a measure of how well a test can
identify true positives and specificity is a measure of how well a test can identify
true negatives:

        · Sensitivity (true positive rate) is the probability of a positive test
             result conditioned on the individual truly being positive.

         · Specificity (true negative rate) is the probability of a negative test
             result, conditioned on the individual truly being negative.

For all testing, both diagnoses and screening, there is usually a trade-off between
sensitivity and specificity, such that higher sensitivities will mean lower
specificities and vice versa.
A test which reliably detects the presence of a condition, resulting in a high
number of true positives and low number of false negatives, will have a high
sensitivity. This is especially important when the consequence of failing to treat
the condition is serious and/or the treatment is very effective and has minimal

side effects.

A test which reliably excludes individuals who do not have the condition,
resulting in a high number of true negatives and low number of false positives,
will have a high specificity. This is especially important when people who are
identified as having a condition may be subjected to more testing, expense,
stigma, anxiety, etc.

                                                                                                                                                                            4/7
                                                                                                          BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

                                                                           False negative

                                                        Healthy                                     Sick

                                                                           Cut off         True positive

L  True negative

   Unit of measure of the test

                                                                           False positive

PPV = -                                                                                    NPV =
                                                     +
                                                                                                                                     +

Sensitivity =                                                                              Specificity =

                                                                        +                                                                          +

        Sensitivity and specificity

        The terms "sensitivity" and "specificity" were introduced by American
        biostatistician Jacob Yerushalmy in 1947."

What does this mean for our example?

A medical practitioner who is in addition to the Statistician in the medical field, a
biostatistician, the person skilled in the art is very well aware of the above contexts. He
will choose a threshold that is between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3 depending on
whether he finds it more acceptable to have more false positive or more false negative

conclusions.

                                                                                                                                                      5/7
                                                                   BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

For instance, the medical practitioner could measure plasma DPP3 for deciding which
patient should obtain fluid administration. In this case, he would probably choose a
lower threshold between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3, maybe 25 or 30 ng/ml. In
this case he would probably overtreat more patients as if he chooses a higher threshold,
but this may be acceptable as the treatment of fluid administration is safe and no harm

is done.

In another instance the medical practitioner may measure plasma DPP3 for deciding
which patient shall obtain a treatment having probably higher adverse effects. For this
decision, he would probably choose a higher threshold between 25 and 150 ng/ml for
plasma DPP3, maybe 70 or 90 ng/ml, thereby minimizing treating healthy patients, but
he will miss some sick patients because the threshold is quite high and there are sick
patients below said higher threshold.

This also means that the shifting of the threshold within the predetermined range as
mentioned in the claims just changes the sensitivity and the specificity of the diagnostic
method. Both statistic measures are counteracting, if you improve the sensitivity, you
will worsen the specificity of the test and vice versa.

In his declaration, Dr. Hartmann has nicely explained the above said. In table A you can
see that despite choosing different thresholds, in our case 45 ng/ml, 50 ng/ml or 55
ng/ml, the performance measures are essentially equivalent.

Therefore, all that the person skilled in the art needs to know is that he must choose a
threshold that is between 25 and 150 ng/ml for plasma DPP3.

The above-explained consequences are clear to person skilled in the art.

Applicants once again kindly ask for including an expert in this field into the Examining
Division, which is a Statistician in the medical field, a biostatistician. We are convinced
that the wording of the claims is clear to person skilled in the art.

Further, the Examining Division asked to include a comparison step to DPP3 values of
healthy persons.
It may be true that a threshold range is calculated statistically by some statistical
comparison to DPP3 values of healthy persons. But once this has been done, once the
threshold range has been determined (as this was done by the inventors of the present
application) the medical practitioner will not compare an actual determined DPP3 value
of a patient to DPP3 values of healthy persons, but he will compare said determined
DPP3 value of a patient blood sample to said predetermined threshold. This is exactly
reflected and encompassed by the actual wording of the claims. If we introduced that the

                                                                                                                                                                                6/7
                                                                   BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

predetermined threshold value is obtained by measuring DPP3 levels in samples from
"normal" healthy subjects or derived therefrom we would introduce a step or a feature
into the claims that will not be performed when the inventive method is infringed or
when the inventive method is induced to be infringed. It would render the claims useless
and unenforceable.

Also, there is no constant shifting of the scope of the claims. The claims are clear and
concise and clearly understood by a person skilled in the art. It is also not missing in the
claims how threshold values are determined. The "art" of how thresholds are determined
is basic knowledge of a person skilled in the art which is a Statistician in the medical field.
It is described in textbooks; it is described in the description of the present application.

The claims are in accordance with Art. 84 EPC.

We kindly ask the Examining Division to reconsider its conclusion in view of the above
arguments and clarifications and furthermore, since numerous Examining Divisions
were of the same opinion and granted patent claims with the exact same wording.

Applicants again respectfully requests that the presently pending claims are granted
without Oral Proceedings.

BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Dr. Ute Kilger
Patent Attorney

112.276  7/7
