(12) INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION PUBLISHED UNDER THE PATENT COOPERATION TREATY (PCT)

(19) World Intellectual Property Organization

International Bureau

(10) International Publication Number

(43) International Publication Date
25 June 2020 (25.06.2020) WIPOIPCT

WO 2020/128039 A2

(51) International Patent Classification:

A61K 45/06 (2006.01)

A61P 31/00 (2006.01)

A61K 38/08 (2019.01)

A61P 9/10 (2006.01)

(21) International Application Number: PCT/EP2019/086791

Published:
- without international search report and to be republished upon receipt of that report (Rule 48.2(g))
- with sequence listing part of description (Rule 5.2(a))

(22) International Filing Date: 20 December 2019 (20.12.2019)

(25) Filing Language:

English

(26) Publication Language:

English

(30) Priority Data:
18215656.2
19194769.6

21 December 2018 (21.12.2018) EP 30 August 2019 (30.08.2019) EP

(71) Applicant: 4TEEN4 PHARMACEUTICALS GMBH [DE/DE]; Neuendorfstraße 15A, 16761 Hennigsdorf (DE).

(72) Inventor: BERGMANN, Andreas; Am Rosenanger 78, 13465 Berlin (DE).

(74) Agent: KILGER, Ute et al .; Boehmert & Boehmert, Hollerallee 32, 28209 Bremen (DE).

(81) Designated States (unless otherwise indicated, for every kind of national protection available): AE, AG, AL, AM, AO, AT, AU, AZ, BA, BB, BG, BH, BN, BR, BW, BY, BZ, CA, CH, CL, CN, CO, CR, CU, CZ, DE, DJ, DK, DM, DO, DZ, EC, EE, EG, ES, FI, GB, GD, GE, GH, GM, GT, HN, HR, HU, ID, IL, IN, IR, IS, JO, JP, KE, KG, KH, KN, KP, KR, KW, KZ, LA, LC, LK, LR, LS, LU, LY, MA, MD, ME, MG, MK, MN, MW, MX, MY, MZ, NA, NG, NI, NO, NZ, OM, PA, PE, PG, PH, PL, PT, QA, RO, RS, RU, RW, SA, SC, SD, SE, SG, SK, SL, SM, ST, SV, SY, TH, TJ, TM, TN, TR, TT, TZ, UA, UG, US, UZ, VC, VN, ZA, ZM, ZW.

(84) Designated States (unless otherwise indicated, for every kind of regional protection available): ARIPO (BW, GH, GM, KE, LR, LS, MW, MZ, NA, RW, SD, SL, ST, SZ, TZ, UG, ZM, ZW), Eurasian (AM, AZ, BY, KG, KZ, RU, TJ, TM), European (AL, AT, BE, BG, CH, CY, CZ, DE, DK, EE, ES, FI, FR, GB, GR, HR, HU, IE, IS, IT, LT, LU, LV, MC, MK, MT, NL, NO, PL, PT, RO, RS, SE, SI, SK, SM,
TR), OAPI (BF, BJ, CF, CG, CI, CM, GA, GN, GQ, GW, KM, ML, MR, NE, SN, TD, TG).

WO 2020/128039 A2

(54) Title: THERAPY GUIDANCE AND/OR THERAPY MONITORING FOR A TREATMENT WITH ANGIOTENSIN-RECEPTOR-AGONIST AND/OR A PRECURSOR THEREOF
(57) Abstract: Subject matter of the present invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, . wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic heart failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver failure, bum injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g. AIDS), parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g. seizures, neurodegenerative diseases), autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases, hypotension and shock, and . wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
1

Therapy Guidance and/or Therapy Monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-

Receptor-Agonist and/or a Precursor thereof

Subject matter of the present invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/or a precursor 5 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject,

· wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic heart

failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver failure, burn injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g. AIDS),

10

parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney injury (AKI),

CNS disorders (e.g. seizures, neurodegenerative diseases), autoimmune diseases,

vascular diseases, hypotension, and shock and

wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or an amount of DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

15

STATE OF THE ART

Dipeptidyl peptidase 3 - also known as Dipeptidyl aminopeptidase III, Dipeptidyl arylamidase III, Dipeptidyl peptidase III, Enkephalinase B or red cell angiotensinase; short name: DPP3, DPPIII - is a metallopeptidase that removes dipeptides from physiologically 20 active peptides, such as enkephalins and angiotensins.

DPP3 was first identified and its activity measured in extracts of purified bovine anterior pituitary by Ellis & Nuenke 1967. The enzyme, which is listed as EC 3.4.14.4, has a molecular mass of about 83 kDa and is highly conserved in procaryotes and eucaryotes (Prajapati & Chauhan 2011). The amino acid sequence of the human variant is depicted in 25 SEQ ID NO 1. Dipeptidyl peptidase III is a mainly cytosolic peptidase which is ubiquitously expressed. Despite lacking a signal sequence, a few studies reported membranous activity (Lee & Snyder 1982).

DPP3 is a zinc-depending exo-peptidase belonging to the peptidase family M49. It has a broad substrate specificity for oligopeptides from three/ four to ten amino acids of various
30 compositions and is also capable of cleaving after proline. DPP3 is known to hydrolyze dipeptides from the N-terminus of its substrates, including angiotensin II, III and IV; Leu- and

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
2

Met-enkephalin; endomorphin 1 and 2. The metallopeptidase DPP3 has its activity optimum

at pH 8.0-9.0 and can be activated by addition of divalent metal ions, such as Co2+ and Mg2+.

Structural analysis of DPP3 revealed the catalytic motifs HELLGH (hDPP3 450-455) and EECRAE (hDPP3 507-512), as well as following amino acids, that are important for substrate 5 binding and hydrolysis: Glu316, Tyr, 318, Asp366, Asn391, Asn394, His568, Arg572, Arg577, Lys666 and Arg669 (Prajapati & Chauhan 2011; Kumar et al. 2016; numbering refers to the sequence of human DPP3, see SEQ ID NO. 1). Considering all known amino acids or sequence regions that are involved in substrate binding and hydrolysis, the active site of human DPP3 can be defined as the area between amino acids 316 and 669.

10 The most prominent substrate of DPP3 is angiotensin II (Ang II), the main effector of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). The RAS is activated in cardiovascular diseases (Dostal et
al. 1997. J Mol Cell Cardiol; 29:2893-902; Roks et al. 1997. Heart Vessels. Suppl 12:11924), sepsis, and septic shock (Corrêa et al. 2015. Crit Care 2015;19:98). Ang II, in particular,
has been shown to modulate many cardiovascular functions including the control of blood 15 pressure and cardiac remodeling.

The exact biological function of DPP III in cellular physiology is not understood, but recent findings indicate its role not only in in protein metabolism but also in pain modulation and inflammatory processes (Prajapati & Chauhan 2011). In addition, DPP3 reduced blood pressure in AngII-infused hypertensive mice, without changing heart rate (Pang et al. 2016). 20 However normotensive mice had no alteration in blood pressure, when DPP3 was injected.

Blood pressure reduction by administration of DPP3 together with an angiotensin-receptor antagonist in Ang II-infused mice was similar to that of DPP3 injection alone or angiotensinreceptor antagonist alone (Pang et al. 2016. Hypertension 68:630-41).

Angiotensin II (AngII) is a peptide hormone naturally produced by the body that regulates 25 blood pressure via vasoconstriction and sodium reabsorption. The hemodynamic effects of
Ang II administration have been the subject of numerous clinical studies, demonstrating significant effects on systemic and renal blood flow (Harrison-Bernard 2009. Adv. Physiol Edu. 33(4): 270).

AngII-treatment is currently discussed for its beneficial effect in vasodilatory shock and septic 30 shock (Khanna, A. et al., 2017; Antonucci, E. et al. 2017, Tumlin, J.A. et al, 2018). Patients
with vasodilatory shock (80% in septic shock) treated with angiotensin II were more likely to

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
3

survive to 28 days and showed a significant correction of hypotension (Khanna, A. et al.,
2017; Tumlin, J.A. et al., 2018).

It is assumed that the Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) is highly dysregulated in shock patients leading to an altered angiotensin I/II ratio) and that angiotensin II infusion may 5 compensate for such dysregulation (Tumlin, J.A. et al., 2018).

Recently, two assays were generated, characterized, and validated to specifically detect DPP3 in human bodily fluids (e.g., blood, plasma, serum): a luminescence immunoassay (LIA) to detect DPP3 protein concentration and an enzyme capture activity assay (ECA) to detect specific DPP3 activity (Rehfeld et al. 2018. JALM in press). A washing step in both methods
10 removes all interfering substances before the actual detection of DPP3 protein or activity is performed. Both methods are highly specific and allow the reproducible detection of DPP3 in blood samples.

Subject matter of the present invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor 15 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject,

· wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure,

chronic heart failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI),

stroke, liver failure, burn injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection

20

(microbial, viral (e.g. AIDS), parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or

sepsis, cancer, acute kidney injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g. seizures,

neurodegenerative diseases), autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases,

hypotension, and shock and

· wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or an amount of

25

DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined

threshold.

Beginning of treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is indicated when a patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of 30 bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold level.

Said patient may be a critically ill patient which means a patient that suffers from a critical illness which is any disease process that causes physiological instability leading to disability

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
4

or death within minutes or hours. Perturbation of the neurological and cardiorespiratory

systems generally has the most immediate life-threatening effects. Such instability can be

reliably detected by deviations from the normal range in simple clinical observations such as

level of consciousness, respiratory rate, heart rate, blood pressure and urinary output. Such

5 measurements may feature in scoring systems to assess the severity of many common

diseases such as the CRB-65 score for pneumonia and the Glasgow score for pancreatitis

(Frost 2007. British Journal of Hospital Medicine 68 (10): M180-183).

Said disease may be selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic heart failure, 10 acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver failure, burn injuries,
traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g. AIDS), parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g. seizures, neurodegenerative diseases), autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases, hypotension, and
shock.
15
Thus, said disease maybe shock and maybe selected from the group comprising hypovolemic, cardiogenic, obstructive, and distributive shock.

Shock is characterized by decreased oxygen delivery and/or increased oxygen consumption or 20 inadequate oxygen utilization leading to cellular and tissue hypoxia. It is a life-threatening
condition of circulatory failure and most commonly manifested as hypotension (systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg or MAP less than 65 mmHg). Shock is divided into four main types based on the underlying cause: hypovolemic, cardiogenic, obstructive, and distributive shock (Vincent and De Backer 2014. N. Engl. J. Med. 370(6): 583).
25
Hypovolemic shock is characterized by decreased intravascular volume and can be divided into two broad subtypes: hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic. Common causes of hemorrhagic hypovolemic shock include gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, tumor eroding into a major blood vessel) and spontaneous 30 bleeding in the setting of anticoagulant use. Common causes of nonhemorrhagic hypovolemic shock include vomiting, diarrhea, renal loss, skin losses/insensible losses (e.g. burns, heat stroke) or third-space loss in the setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal obstruction, trauma. For review see Koya and Paul 2018. Shock. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2019-2018 Oct 27.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
5

Cardiogenic shock (CS) is defined as a state of critical endorgan hypoperfusion due to reduced cardiac output. Notably, CS forms a spectrum that ranges from mild hypoperfusion to profound shock. Established criteria for the diagnosis of CS are: (i) systolic blood pressure

less than90 mmHg for >30 min or vasopressors required to achieve a blood pressure 90

5 mmHg; (ii) pulmonary congestion or elevated left-ventricular filling pressures; (iii) signs of impaired organ perfusion with at least one of the following criteria: (a) altered mental status;
(b) cold, clammy skin; (c) oliguria (urine output <30 mL/h); (d) increased serum-lactate (Reynolds and Hochman 2008. Circulation 117: 686-697). Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with subsequent ventricular dysfunction is the most frequent cause of CS accounting 10 for approximately 80% of cases. Mechanical complications such as ventricular septal (4%) or
free wall rupture (2%), and acute severe mitral regurgitation (7%) are less frequent causes of
CS after AMI. (Hochman et al. 2000. J Am Coll Cardiol 36: 1063-1070). Non-AMI-related CS may be caused by decompensated valvular heart disease, acute myocarditis, arrhythmias, etc. with heterogeneous treatment options.
15
Obstructive shock is due to a physical obstruction of the great vessels or the heart itself. Several conditions can result in this form of shock (e.g. cardiac tamponade, tension pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism, aortic stenosis). For review see Koya and Paul 2018. Shock. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2019-2018 Oct 27.
20
According to the cause, there are four types of distributive shock: neurogenic shock (decreased sympathetic stimulation leading to decreased vasal tone), anaphylactic shock, septic shock and shock due to adrenal crisis. In addition to sepsis, distributive shock can be caused by systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) due to conditions other than 25 infection such as pancreatitis, burns or trauma. Other causes include, toxic shock syndrome (TSS), anaphylaxis (a sudden, severe allergic reaction), adrenal insufficiency (acute worsening of chronic adrenal insufficiency, destruction or removal of the adrenal glands, suppression of adrenal gland function due to exogenous steroids, hypopituitarism and metabolic failure of hormone production), reactions to drugs or toxins, heavy metal 30 poisoning, hepatic (liver) insufficiency and damage to the central nervous system. For review
see Koya and Paul 2018. Shock. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2019-2018 Oct 27.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
6

In one embodiment of the invention said patient is a shock patient. In a further embodiment of

the invention said shock may be selected from the group of hypovolemic, cardiogenic, obstructive, and distributive shock. In another specific embodiment of the invention said

distributive shock is septic shock.

5
An agonist means a chemical that binds to a receptor and activates the receptor to produce a biological response. Receptors can be activated by either endogenous agonists (such as hormones and neurotransmitters) or exogenous agonists (such as drugs), resulting in a biological response. Full agonists bind to and activate a receptor with the maximum response 10 that an agonist can elicit at the receptor. Partial agonists are drugs that bind to and activate a given receptor, but have only partial efficacy at the receptor relative to a full agonist. Potency is the amount of agonist needed to elicit a desired response. The potency of an agonist is
inversely related to its EC50 value. The EC50 can be measured for a given agonist by determining the concentration of agonist needed to elicit half of the maximum biological 15 response of the agonist. The EC50 value is useful for comparing the potency of drugs with
similar efficacies producing physiologically similar effects. The smaller the EC50 value, the greater the potency of the agonist, the lower the concentration of drug that is required to elicit the maximum biological response.

20 The treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/or a precursor thereof may be continued as long as the patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold level.

The amount of DPP3 protein and/ or the DPP3 activity is measured at least every 24 hours, 25 preferred every 12 hours, more preferred every 8 hours, even more preferred every 6 hours,
even more preferred every 4 hours, even more preferred every 2 hours, even more preferred every hour, most preferred every 30 minutes.
The treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may be discontinued when the patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a 30 sample of bodily fluid that is below a predetermined threshold level.

In one embodiment said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected
from the group comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, angiotensin IV

WO 2020/128039
7
Angiotensin Therapeutics:

PCT/EP2019/086791

Angiotensin I, also called proangiotensin, is formed by the action of renin on angiotensinogen. Renin cleaves the peptide bond between the leucine (Leu) and valine (Val) 5 residues on angiotensinogen, creating the decapeptide (ten amino acid) (des-Asp) angiotensin I. Angiotensin I is converted to angiotensin II through removal of two C-terminal residues by the enzyme angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), primarily through ACE within the lung (but also present in endothelial cells, kidney epithelial cells, and the brain).

10 Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and angiotensin IV are peptide hormones naturally produced
by the body that regulates blood pressure via vasoconstriction and sodium reabsorption. Hemodynamic effects of angiotensin II administration have been the subject of numerous
clinical studies, demonstrating significant effects on systemic and renal blood flow (HarrisonBernard, L.M., The renal renin-angiotensin system. Ady Physiol Educ, 33(4): 270 (2009)).
15
Angiotensin II is a hormone produced by the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) that modulates blood pressure via regulation of vascular smooth muscle tone and extracellular fluid homeostasis. Angiotensin II mediates its effects on the vasculature by inducing vasoconstriction and sodium retention, and so is the target of many therapies for hypertension. 20 In addition to its systemic effects, angiotensin II has a pronounced effect on the efferent arterioles of the kidney, maintaining glomerular filtration when blood flow is decreased. Angiotensin II also regulates sodium reabsorption in the kidney by stimulating Na+/H+ exchangers in the proximal tubule and inducing the release of aldosterone and vasopressin (Harrison-Bernard, L.M., The renal renin-angiotensin system. Adv Physiol Educ, 33(4):270 25 (2009)).

The angiotensin II therapeutic that may be used in the compositions and methods of this disclosure may be Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 13), also called 5-isoleucine angiotensin II. SEQ ID NO: 13 is an octa-peptide naturally present in humans 30 and other species, such as equines, hogs, etc. Isoleucine may be substituted by valine to result in 5-vaiine angiotensin II, Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Val-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 14). Other angiotensin II analogues such as [Asn1-Phe4]-angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 15), hexapeptide Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 16), nonapeptide Asn-Arg-Val-Tyr-Tyr-Val-His-ProPhe (SEQ ID NO: 17), [Asn1 Ile5 Ile8]-angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 18), [Asn1 -lle5- Ala8]-

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
8

angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 19), and [Asn1-diiodoTyr4-Ile5-angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 20)

may also be used. Angiotensin II may be synthesized, for example, by solid phase peptide

synthesis to incorporate modifications, such as C -terminal amidation. The term "angiotensin II", without further specificity, is intended to refer to any of these various forms, as well as

5 combinations thereof.

In some aspects, a composition comprising angiotensin II may be selected from 5-valine angiotensin II, 5-valine angiotensin II amide, 5-L-isoleucine angiotensin II, and 5-L-isoleucine angiotensin II amide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably 10 manufactured under current good manufacturing conditions (cGMP). In some aspects, the
composition may include different forms of angiotensin II in different percentages, e.g., a mixture of hexapeptide and nonapeptide angiotensin II. The composition comprising angiotensin II may be suitable for parenteral administration, e.g., for injection or intravenous
infusion.
15
The sequence of angiotensin II used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein may be homologous to the sequences of angiotensin II described above. In certain aspects, the invention includes isolated, synthetic, or recombinant amino acid sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20 18, 19 and/or 20. Any such variant sequences may be used in place of an angiotensin II as described in the preceding paragraph.
Sequence identity for all sequences is determined according to the following method: Percent
identity is calculated by multiplying the number of matches in the pair by 100 and dividing by the length of the aligned region, including gaps (Percent Identity = [Matches x 100]/Length of 25 aligned region [with gaps]).

Angiotensin III is a metabolite of angiotensin II with approximately 40% of the activity of angiotensin II. An angiotensin III therapeutic that may be used for in the compositions and methods of this disclosure may be Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 21). SEQ ID 30 NO: 21 is an hepta-peptide naturally present in humans and other species, such as equines, hogs, etc. Isoleucine may be substituted by valine to result in Arg-Val-Tyr-Val-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 22). Other angiotensin III analogues such as [Phe3]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID NO: 23), [Ile4-Ala7]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID NO: 24), and [diiodoTyr3-Ile4]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID NO: 25) may also be used. Angiotensin III may be synthesized, for example, by

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
9

solid phase peptide synthesis to incorporate modifications, such as C-terminal amidation. The

term "angiotensin III", without further specificity, is intended to refer to any of these various

forms, as well as combinations thereof.

5 In some aspects, a composition comprising angiotensin III may be selected from 4-valine angiotensin III, 4-valine angiotensin III amide, 4-L-isoleucine angiotensin III, and 4-L-isoleucine angiotensin III amide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably manufactured under current good manufacturing conditions (cGMP). A composition
comprising angiotensin III may be suitable for parenteral administration, e.g., for injection or
10 intravenous infusion.

The sequence of angiotensin III used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein may be homologous to the sequences of angiotensin III described above. In certain aspects, the invention includes isolated, synthetic, or recombinant amino acid sequences that are at least 15 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 21, 22, 23, 24 and/or 25. Any such variant sequences may be used in place of an angiotensin II as described in the preceding paragraph.

Angiotensin IV is a metabolite of angiotensin III with less activity than angiotensin II. An 20 angiotensin IV therapeutic that may be used for in the compositions and methods of this
disclosure may be Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 26). SEQ ID NO: 26 is a hexapeptide naturally present in humans and other species. Isoleucine may be substituted by valine to result in Val-Tyr-Val-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 27). Other angiotensin IV analogues such as [Phe2]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID NO: 28), [Ile3-AIa6]-angiotensin IV (SEQ
25 ID NO: 29), and [diiodoTyr2-Ile3]-angiotensin IV (SEQ ID NO: 30) may also be used. Angiotensin IV may be synthesized, for example, by solid phase peptide synthesis to
incorporate modifications, such as C-terminal amidation. The term "angiotensin IV", without further specificity, is intended to refer to any of these various forms, as well as combinations
thereof.
30 In some aspects, a composition comprising angiotensin IV may be selected from 3-valine angiotensin IV, 3-valine angiotensin IV amide, 3-L-isoleucine angiotensin IV, and 3-L-isoieucine angiotensin IV amide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably manufactured under current good manufacturing conditions (cGMP). A composition

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
10

comprising angiotensin IV may be suitable for parenteral administration, e.g., for injection or

intravenous infusion.

The sequence of angiotensin IV used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein may 5 be homologous to the sequences of angiotensin IV described above. In certain aspects, the
invention includes isolated, synthetic, or recombinant amino acid sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 25, 26, 27, 28, 29
and/or 30. Any such variant sequences may be used in place of an angiotensin IV as described
in the preceding paragraph.
10
An angiotensin II, angiotensin III, or angiotensin IV therapeutic may be used as any suitable salt (e.g. acetate), deprotected form, acetylated form, deacetylated form, and/or prodrug form of the above-mentioned peptides, including pegylated forms of the peptides or conjugates as disclosed in US Patent Publication 2011/0081371 (incorporated by reference). The term
15 "prodrug" refers to any precursor compound which is able to generate or to release the abovementioned peptide under physiological conditions. Such prodrugs or precursors may be larger
peptides which are selectively cleaved in order to form the peptide of the invention. For example, in some aspects, the prodrug or precursor may be angiotensinogen, angiotensin I, or its homologues that may result in angiotensin II by the action of certain endogenous or
20 exogenous enzymes. Further prodrugs or precursors include peptides with protected amino acids, e.g., having protecting groups at one or more carboxylic acid and/or amino groups. Suitable protecting groups for amino groups include the benzyloxycarbonyl, tbutyloxycarbonyl (BOC), fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (FMOC), formyl, and acetyl or acyl group. Suitable protecting groups for the carboxylic acid group include esters such as benzyl
25 esters or t-butyl esters. The present invention also contemplates the use of angiotensin II,
angiotensin III, angiotensin IV and/or precursor peptides having amino acid substitutions, deletions, additions, the substitutions and additions including the standard D and L amino acids and modified amino acids, such as, for example, amidated and acetylated amino acids,
wherein the therapeutic activity of the base peptide sequence is maintained at a
30 pharmacologically useful level.

In a preferred embodiment the angiotensin II is angiotensin II acetate. Angiotensin II acetate
is L-Aspartyl-L-arginyl-L-valyl-Ltyrosyl-L-isoleucyl-L-histidyl-L-prolyl-L-phenylalanine, acetate salt. The counter ion acetate is present in a non-stoichiometric ratio. The molecular

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
11

formula of angiotensin II acetate is C50H71N13O12 . (C2H4O2)n; (n=number of acetate molecules; theoretical n = 3) with an average molecular weight of 1046.2 (as free base).

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor 5 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said subject has an amount
of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.
10
One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold, wherein the determination of the amount of DPP3 protein and/or 15 DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is used as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

In one embodiment of the invention the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined before treatment of the subject with an angiotensin20 receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined during treatment of the subject with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof at least once during treatment, preferably at least twice or preferably at least once daily during treatment. In one embodiment of the invention the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 25 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined after treatment of the subject with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined before and/or during and/or after treatment of the subject with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.
30
One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
12

predetermined threshold, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from

whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor 5 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-
Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor 10 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-
Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II and said pharmaceutical formulation is a solution, preferably a ready-to-use solution. In another embodiment subject of the present invention is further a pharmaceutical formulation according to the present invention wherein said pharmaceutical formulation is in a dried state to be reconstituted before use.
15
The pharmaceutical formulation of the present invention may also contain diluents, fillers, salts, buffers, stabilizers, solubilizers, and other materials well known in the art. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to a non-toxic carrier that may be administered to a patient, together with a therapeutically effective substance (such as angiotensin II) of this
20 invention, and which does not destroy the pharmacological activity of the therapeutically
effective substance. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" means a non-toxic material that does not interfere with the effectiveness of the biological activity of the active ingredient(s).

The characteristics of the carrier will depend on the route of administration. The term 25 "excipient" refers to an additive in a formulation or composition that is not a pharmaceutically
active ingredient.

One of skill in the art would appreciate that the choice of any one excipient may influence the choice of any other excipient. For example, the choice of a particular excipient may preclude 30 the use of one or more additional excipients because the combination of excipients would produce undesirable effects. Excipients of the invention may include, but are not limited to, co-solvents, solubilizing agents, buffers, pH adjusting agents, bulking agents, surfactants, encapsulating agents, tonicity-adjusting agents, stabilizing agents, protectants, and viscosity
modifiers.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
13

In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in the compositions of the invention.
5 In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a solubilizing agent in the compositions of the invention. Solubilizing agents may be useful for increasing the solubility of any of the components of the formulation or composition, including a therapeutically effective substance (e.g., angiotensin II, angiotensin III, or angiotensin IV) or an excipient. The solubilizing agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided
10 merely as exemplary solubilizing agents that may be used in the compositions of the invention. In certain aspects, solubilizing agents include, but are not limited to, ethyl alcohol, tert-butyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, glycerol, methylparaben, propylparaben, polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, and any pharmaceutically acceptable salts and/or combinations thereof.
15
In some aspects, it may be beneficial to adjust the pH of the compositions by including a pH-adjusting agent in the compositions of the invention. Modifying the pH of a formulation or composition may have beneficial effects on, for example, the stability or solubility of a
therapeutically effective substance, or may be useful in making a formulation or composition 20 suitable for parenteral administration. pH-adjusting agents are well known in the art.
Accordingly, the pH-adjusting agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided merely as exemplary pH-adjusting agents that may be used in the compositions of the invention. pH-adjusting agents may include, for example, acids and bases. In some aspects, a pH-adjusting agent includes, but is not limited to, acetic acid, 25 hydrochloric acid, phosphoric acid, sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, and combinations thereof.

The pH of the compositions of the invention may be any pH that provides desirable properties for the formulation or composition. Desirable properties may include, for example, 30 therapeutically effective substance (e.g., angiotensin II, angiotensin III, or angiotensin IV)
stability, increased therapeutically effective substance retention as compared to compositions
at other pHs, and improved filtration efficiency. In some aspects, the pH of the compositions of the invention may be from about 3.0 to about 9.0, e.g., from about 5.0 to about 7.0. In

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
14

particular aspects, the pH of the compositions of the invention may be 5.5±0.1, 5.6+0.1,

5.7±0.1,5.8±0.1,5.9±0.1,6.0±0.1,6.1±0.1,6.2±0.1,6.3±0.1, 6.4±0.1,or6.5±0.1.

In some aspects, it may be beneficial to buffer the pH by including one or more buffers in the 5 compositions. In certain aspects, a buffer may have a pKa of, for example, about 5.5, about
6.0, or about 6.5. One of skill in the art would appreciate that an appropriate buffer may be chosen for inclusion in compositions of the invention based on its pKa and other properties.

Buffers are well known in the art. Accordingly, the buffers described herein are not intended 10 to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided merely as exemplary buffers that may be
used in the compositions of the invention. In certain aspects, a buffer may include one or more of the following: Tris, Tris HC1, potassium phosphate, sodium phosphate, sodium citrate, sodium ascorbate, combinations of sodium and potassium phosphate, Tris/Tris HC1, sodium bicarbonate, arginine phosphate, arginine hydrochloride, histidine hydrochloride, 15 cacodylate, succinate, 2-(N-morpholino)ethanesulfonic acid (MES), maleate, bis-tris, phosphate, carbonate, and any pharmaceutically acceptable salts and/or combinations thereof.
In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a surfactant in the compositions of the invention. Surfactants, in general, decrease the surface tension of a liquid composition. This 20 may provide beneficial properties such as improved ease of filtration. Surfactants also may act as emulsifying agents and/or solubilizing agents. Surfactants are well known in the art. Accordingly, the surfactants described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided merely as exemplary surfactants that may be used in the compositions of the invention. Surfactants that may be included include, but are not limited to, sorbitan esters 25 such as polysorbates (e.g., polysorbate 20 and polysorbate 80), lipopolysaccharides, polyethylene glycols (e.g., PEG 400 and PEG 3000), poloxamers (i.e., pluronics), ethylene oxides and polyethylene oxides (e.g., Triton X-100), saponins, phospholipids (e.g., lecithin), and combinations thereof.

30 In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a toni city-adjusting agent in the compositions of the invention. The tonicity of a liquid composition is an important consideration when administering the composition to a patient, for example, by parenteral administration. Tonicity-adjusting agents, thus, may be used to help make a formulation or composition suitable for administration. Tonicity-adjusting agents are well known in the art. Accordingly,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
15

the tonicity-adjusting agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list,

but are provided merely as exemplary tonicity-adjusting agents that may be used in the

compositions of the invention. Tonicity-adjusting agents may be ionic or non-ionic and

include, but are not limited to, inorganic salts, amino acids, carbohydrates, sugars, sugar

5 alcohols, and carbohydrates. Exemplary inorganic salts may include sodium chloride,

potassium chloride, sodium sulfate, and potassium sulfate. An exemplary amino acid is

glycine. Exemplary sugars may include sugar alcohols such as glycerol, propylene glycol,

glucose, sucrose, lactose, and mannitol.

10 In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a stabilizing agent in the compositions of the invention. Stabilizing agents help increase the stability of a therapeutically effective substance in compositions of the invention. This may occur by, for example, reducing degradation or preventing aggregation of a therapeutically effective substance. Without wishing to be bound by theory, mechanisms for enhancing stability may include sequestration of the
15 therapeutically effective substance from a solvent or inhibiting free radical oxidation of the anthracycline compound. Stabilizing agents are well known in the art. Accordingly, the stabilizing agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided merely as exemplary stabilizing agents that may be used in the compositions of the invention. Stabilizing agents may include, but are not limited to, emulsifiers and surfactants.
20
The compositions of the invention can be administered in a variety of conventional ways. In some aspects, the compositions of the invention are suitable for parenteral administration. These compositions may be administered, for example, intraperitoneally, intravenously, intrarenally, or intrathecally. In some aspects, the compositions of the invention are injected 25 intravenously. One of skill in the art would appreciate that a method of administering a therapeutically effective substance formulation or composition of the invention would depend on factors such as the age, weight, and physical condition of the patient being treated, and the disease or condition being treated. The skilled worker would, thus, be able to select a method of administration optimal for a patient on a case-by-case basis.
30
Angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof can be administered in any suitable way, but are typically administered by continuous infusion. Accordingly, increasing or decreasing a rate of administration can be accomplished by changing the rate of flow of an intravenous drip, changing the concentration of the agent in an intravenous drip, etc.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
16

However, the manner in which the rate of administration is changed will depend on the mode of administration of the therapeutic. Where the therapeutic is administered transmucosally or

transdermally, the rate may be increased by changing to a higher-release-rate patch or

transdermal composition for example. Where the therapeutic is administered orally, the rate 5 may be increased by switching to a higher-dose form, administering additional doses, or

administering controlled-release dosage forms with a higher rate of release, for example.

Where the therapeutic is administered by inhalation, the rate may be increased by administering additional boluses, a more concentrated bolus, or a faster-release bolus, for 10 example. Other modes of administration (via subcutaneous injection pump, suppository, etc.) can be modulated in analogous fashions, and decreasing the rate of administration can be accomplished by doing the opposite of an action that would increase the rate of administration of the therapeutic.

15 One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate between 0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between 2 and 80 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more preferred
20 between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 15 and 40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a rate of 20 ng/kg/min.

In a specific embodiment of the invention the starting dosage (initial rate) of angiotensin II is 80 ng/kg/min, more preferred 40 ng/kg/min, most preferred 20 ng/kg/min via continuous 25 intravenous infusion.

In another specific embodiment of the invention for titration of angiotensin II the blood pressure response (e.g. mean arterial pressure; MAP) is monitored. Titration of angiotensin II may be carried out every 60 minutes, more preferred every 45 minutes, even more preferred 30 every 30 minutes, even more preferred every 15 minutes, even more preferred every 10 minutes, most preferred every 5 minutes. Angiotensin II titration may be carried out by increments of up to 40 ng/kg/min, more preferred up to 20 ng/kg/min, most preferred up to 15 ng/kg/min as needed to achieve or maintain target blood pressure. In another preferred embodiment the dosage should not exceed 80 ng/kg/min of angiotensin II during the first 3

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
17

hours of treatment. It is most preferred that maintenance doses should not exceed

40 ng/kg/min andd oses as low as 1.25 ng/kg/min may be used.

In some embodiments, the patient has an initial mean arterial pressure (MAP) of no more than 5 about 40 mm Hg, about 45 mm Hg, about 50 mm Hg, 55 mm Hg, about 60 mm Hg, about
65 mm Hg, about 70 mm Hg, or about 75 mm Hg prior to administering the composition. The method may comprise measuring a mean atrial blood pressure of the patient and increasing the rate of administering angiotensin II if the mean arterial blood pressure is less than about 40 mm Hg, about 45 mm Hg, about 50 mm Hg, 55 mm Hg, about 60 mm Hg, about 10 65 mm Hg, about 70 mm Hg, or about 75 mm Hg.

In one embodiment of the invention, the patient may be receiving a vasopressor (e.g., a catecholamine, such as norepinephrine, a norepinephrine equivalent, epinephrine, dopamine, phenylephrine) or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the vasopressor is 15 vasopressin (e.g., terlipressin, argipressin, desmopressin, felypressin, lypressin, or ornipressin).

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said angiotensinrReceptor20 agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, in particular Angiotensin II, is administered in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, in combination with an inhibitor of 25 DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is selected from the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.
In accordance with the invention the "anti-DPP3 antibody" is an antibody that binds specifically to DPP3, an "anti-DPP3 antibody fragment" is a fragment of said anti-DPP3 30 antibody, wherein said fragment binds specifically to DPP3. An "anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold" is a non-Ig scaffold that binds specifically to DPP3.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, in combination with an inhibitor of

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
18

DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody

fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold that binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to

SEQ ID NO. 2.

5 One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than 10-7 M.
10 In accordance with the present invention, the person skilled in the art is well aware that the binding affinity of the herein disclosed DPP3 binder to DPP3 may be measured by various suitable assays known in the art. Respective examples are given below, but these shall be not construed as limiting possibilities to measure binding affinity of the herein disclosed DPP3 binder to DPP3.
15 For example, the binding affinity of the DPP3 binder to an epitope may be determined. A binding assay may be performed to detect and/or quantitate antibody binding to e.g. the immunization peptide of the respective binder. For example, this immunization peptide may be immobilized upon a solid phase. The test sample (e.g. antibody solution) is passed over the immobile immunization peptide, and bound antibody can be detected. For the purposes of the
20 present description, the term "solid phase" may be used to include any material or vessel in which or on which the assay may be performed and includes, but is not limited to, porous materials, nonporous materials, test tubes, wells, slides, magnetic beads etc.

Exemplary detection methods:

25

Label antibody before contacting with solid phase and detect respective label

(fluorescence, chemiluminescence, enzymatic etc.).

- Use labeled secondary antibody against specific Fc part of sample-antibody. Incubate solid phase bound antibody with secondary antibody (e.g. anti human IgG, anti murine IgG) and detect respective label (fluorescence, chemiluminescence, enzymatic etc.).

30

- Use a labeled antibody as competitor for solid phase binding (e.g. labeled AK1967).

- Quantify binding affinity by decrease of signal.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
19

Another method to determine the affinity of antibodies to DPP3, the kinetics of binding of DPP3 to immobilized antibody may be determined by means of label-free surface plasmon
resonance using a Biacore 2000 system (GE Healthcare Europe GmbH, Freiburg, Germany).
5 Reversible immobilization of the antibodies may be performed using an anti-mouse Fc antibody covalently coupled in high density to a CM5 sensor surface (mouse antibody capture kit; GE Healthcare) (Lorenz et al. 2011. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 55(1): 165-173).

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor 10 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, in combination with an inhibitor of
DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific, in one embodiment said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monoclonal.
15 Monospecific antibodies or fragments or non-Ig scaffolds according to the invention are antibodies or fragments or non-Ig scaffolds that all have affinity for the same antigen. Monoclonal antibodies are monospecific, but monospecific antibodies may also be produced by other means than producing them from a common germ cell.
In a specific embodiment said capture-binder that binds to full-length DPP3 specifically 20 inhibits less than 50% DPP3 activity in a liquid phase assay, preferably less than 40%, more
preferably 30 %. For definition of liquid phase assay see above. In one specific embodiment to prevent inhibition of DPP3 the capture-binder should not bind DPP3 in the area around the active center and substrate binding region (amino acids 316 - 669 of SEQ ID No. 1).

25 One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to fulllength DPP3 and inhibits activity of DPP3 of at least 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred more than 70 %, even more preferred more than 80 %, even
30 more preferred more than 90 %, even more preferred more than 95 %.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
20

Inhibition of DPP3 activity in a liquid phase assay by a binder may be determined as

followed: Possible DPP3 capture-binders are incubated with recombinant or purified native

DPP3 and specific DPP3 substrates in a liquid phase assay. Preferably, as capture-binder for

the ECA is chosen the one with the least inhibitory ability. The capture-binder should inhibit

5 DPP3 activity less than 50 %, preferably less than 40 %, preferably less than 30 %. The

specific liquid phase DPP3 activity assay to determine the inhibitory ability of possible

capture-binders comprises the following steps:

· Incubation of 25 ng/ ml native human DPP3 with 5 µg/ ml of the respective capture-

binder and buffer control in 50 mM Tris-HC1, pH 7,5 and 100 uM ZnCl2 for 1 hour at

10

room temperature.

· Addition of the fluorogenic substrate Arg-Arg-BNA (20 ul, 2 mM).

· Incubation at 37  and monitoring the generation of free NA in a Twinkle LB 970
microplate fluorometer (Berthold Technologies GmbH) over 1 hour. Fluorescence of ßNA is detected by exciting at 340 nm and measuring emission at 410 nm.

15

· Slopes (in RFU/ min) of increasing fluorescence of the different samples are

calculated. The slope of native human DPP3 with buffer control is appointed as 100 %

activity. The inhibitory ability of a possible capture-binder is defined as the decrease

of native human DPP3 activity by incubation with said capture-binder in percent.

20 In a liquid phase assay samples of bodily fluids are directly subjected to fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-B-NA). Since there are many different amino peptidases in the plasma (Sanderink et al. 1988), it is possible that the used substrate is cleaved by peptidases other than DPP3. To circumvent this problem one preferred method of detecting specific DPP3 activity is the use of an enzyme capture activity assay.

25

In one specific embodiment determination of active DPP3 in an enzyme capture assay comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds to full-length DPP3 but

preferably inhibits DPP3 activity in a liquid phase assay less than 50%, preferably less

30

than 40%, more preferably 30 %. To prevent inhibition of DPP3 the capture-binder

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
21

should not bind DPP3 in the area around the active center and substrate binding region

(amino acids 316 - 669 of SEQ ID No. 1),

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder from bodily fluid sample,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

5

· quantifying DPP3 activity by measuring the conversion of the substrate of DPP3.

An "antibody" according to the present invention is a protein including one or more polypeptides substantially encoded by immunoglobulin genes that specifically binds an antigen. The recognized immunoglobulin genes include the kappa, lambda, alpha (IgA), 10 gamma (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4), delta (IgD), epsilon (IgE) and mu (IgM) constant region genes, as well as the myriad immunoglobulin variable region genes. Full-length immunoglobulin light chains are generally about 25 kDa or 214 amino acids in length.
Full-length immunoglobulin heavy chains are generally about 50 kDa or 446 amino acids in 15 length. Light chains are encoded by a variable region gene at the NH2-terminus (about 110
amino acids in length) and a kappa or lambda constant region gene at the COOH-terminus. Heavy chains are similarly encoded by a variable region gene (about 116 amino acids in length) and one of the other constant region genes.
20 The basic structural unit of an antibody is generally a tetramer that consists of two identical pairs of immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one light and one heavy chain. In each pair, the light and heavy chain variable regions bind to an antigen, and the constant regions mediate effector functions. Immunoglobulins also exist in a variety of other forms including, for example, Fv, Fab, and F(ab')2, as well as bifunctional hybrid antibodies and single chains
25 (e.g., Lanzavecchia et al., Eur. J. Immunol. 17:105,1987; Huston et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 85:5879-5883, 1988; Bird et al., Science 242:423-426, 1988; Hood et al., Immunology, Benjamin, N.Y., 2nd ed., 1984; Hunkapiller and Hood, Nature 323:15-16,1986).
An immunoglobulin light or heavy chain variable region includes a framework region 30 interrupted by three hypervariable regions, also called complementarity determining regions
(CDR's) (see, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, E. Kabat et al., U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 1983). As noted above, the CDRs are primarily

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
22

responsible for binding to an epitope of an antigen. An immune complex is an antibody, such

as a monoclonal antibody, chimeric antibody, humanized antibody or human antibody, or

functional antibody fragment, specifically bound to the antigen.

5 "Chimeric antibodies" are antibodies whose light and heavy chain genes have been constructed, typically by genetic engineering, from immunoglobulin variable and constant region genes belonging to different species. For example, the variable segments of the genes from a mouse monoclonal antibody can be joined to human constant segments, such as kappa and gamma 1 or gamma 3. In one example, a therapeutic chimeric antibody is thus a hybrid
10 protein composed of the variable or antigen-binding domain from a mouse antibody and the constant or effector domain from a human antibody, although other mammalian species can be used, or the variable region can be produced by molecular techniques. Methods of making chimeric antibodies are well known in the art, e.g., see U.S. Patent No. 5,807,715. A "humanized" immunoglobulin is an immunoglobulin including a human framework region
15 and one or more CDRs from a non-human (such as a mouse, rat, or synthetic) immunoglobulin. The non-human immunoglobulin providing the CDRs is termed a "donor" and the human immunoglobulin providing the framework is termed an "acceptor".

In one embodiment of the invention, all the CDRs are from the donor immunoglobulin in a 20 humanized immunoglobulin. Constant regions need not be present, but if they are, they must
be substantially identical to human immunoglobulin constant regions, i.e., at least about 85-90%, such as about 95% or more identical. Hence, all parts of a humanized immunoglobulin, except possibly the CDRs, are substantially identical to corresponding parts of natural human immunoglobulin sequences.
25
A "humanized antibody" in accordance with the invention is an antibody comprising a humanized light chain and a humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin. A humanized antibody binds to the same antigen as the donor antibody that provides the CDRs. The acceptor framework of a humanized immunoglobulin or antibody may have a limited number of 30 substitutions by amino acids taken from the donor framework. Humanized or other monoclonal antibodies can have additional conservative amino acid substitutions which have substantially no effect on antigen binding or other immunoglobulin functions. Exemplary conservative substitutions are those such as gly, ala; val, ile, leu; asp, glu; asn, gln; ser, thr; lys, arg; and phe, tyr. Humanized immunoglobulins can be constructed by means of genetic

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
23

engineering (e.g., see U.S. Patent No. 5,585,089). A human antibody is an antibody wherein

the light and heavy chain genes are of human origin. Human antibodies can be generated using methods known in the art. Human antibodies can be produced by immortalizing a human B cell secreting the antibody of interest. Immortalization can be accomplished, for 5 example, by EBV infection or by fusing a human B cell with a myeloma or hybridoma cell to

produce a trioma cell. Human antibodies can also be produced by phage display methods (see,

e.g., Dower et al., PCT Publication No. WO 91/17271; McCafferty et al., PCT Publication

No. WO 92/001047; and Winter, PCT Publication No. WO 92/20791), or selected from a

human combinatorial monoclonal antibody library (see the Morphosys website). Human

10 antibodies can also be prepared by using transgenic animals carrying a human

immunoglobulin gene (for example, see Lonberg et al., PCT Publication No. WO 93/12227;

and Kucherlapati, PCT Publication No. WO 91/10741).

Thus, the anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment in accordance with the 15 invention may have the formats known in the art. Examples are human antibodies,
monoclonal antibodies, humanized antibodies, chimeric antibodies, CDR-grafted antibodies or antibody fragments thereof, but not limited to.

In a specific embodiment of the invention the anti-DPP3 antibody is a monoclonal antibody or 20 a fragment thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the anti-DPP3 antibody or the
anti-DPP3 antibody fragment is a human or humanized antibody or derived therefrom. In one specific embodiment one or more (murine) CDR's are grafted into a human antibody or
antibody fragment.

25 In a preferred embodiment antibodies according to the present invention are recombinantly produced antibodies as e.g. IgG, a typical full-length immunoglobulin, or antibody fragments containing at least the F-variable domain of heavy and/or light chain as e.g. chemically coupled antibodies (fragment antigen binding) including but not limited to Fab-fragments including Fab minibodies, single chain Fab antibody, monovalent Fab antibody with epitope
30 tags, e.g. Fab-V5Sx2; bivalent Fab (mini-antibody) dimerized with the CH3 domain; bivalent Fab or multivalent Fab, e.g. formed via multimerization with the aid of a heterologous domain, e.g. via dimerization of dHLX domains, e.g. Fab-dHLX-FSx2; F(ab')2-fragments, scFv-fragments, multimerized multivalent and/or multispecific scFv-fragments, bivalent and/or bispecific diabodies, BITE® (bispecific T-cell engager), trifunctional antibodies,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
24

polyvalent antibodies, e.g. from a different class than G; single-domain antibodies, e.g.

nanobodies derived from camelid or fish immunoglobulines and numerous others.

In addition to anti-DPP3 antibodies or anti-DPP3 antibody fragments, other biopolymer 5 scaffolds, so called non-Ig scaffolds, are well known in the art to complex a target molecule
and have been used for the generation of highly target specific biopolymers. Examples are
aptamers, spiegelmers, anticalins and conotoxins.

Non-Ig scaffolds with the context of the invention may be protein scaffolds and may be used 10 as antibody mimics as they are capable to bind to ligands or antigens. Non-Ig scaffolds may
be selected from the group comprising tetranectin-based non-Ig scaffolds (e.g. described in US 2010/0028995), fibronectin scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 1266 025; lipocalin-based scaffolds (e.g. described in WO 2011/154420); ubiquitin scaffolds (e.g. described in WO 2011/073214), transferring scaffolds (e.g. described in US 2004/0023334), protein A 15 scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 2231860), ankyrin repeat based scaffolds (e.g. described in WO 2010/060748), microprotein (preferably microproteins forming a cystine knot) scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 2314308), Fyn SH3 domain based scaffolds (e.g. described in WO 2011/023685), EGFR-A-domain based scaffolds (e.g. described in WO 2005/040229) and Kunitz domain based scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 1941867). Non-Ig scaffolds may be 20 peptide or oligonucleotide aptamers. Aptamers are usually created by selecting them from a large random sequence pool and are either short strands of oligonucleotides (DNA, RNA or XNA; Xu et al. 2010, Deng et al. 2014) or short variable peptide domains attached to a protein scaffold (Li et al. 2011).

25 In an alternative embodiment the anti-DPP3 antibody format is selected from the group comprising Fv fragment, scFv fragment, Fab fragment, scFab fragment, F(ab)2 fragment and scFv-Fc Fusion protein. In another preferred embodiment the antibody format is selected from the group comprising scFab fragment, Fab fragment, scFv fragment and bioavailability optimized conjugates thereof, such as PEGylated fragments.
30
With the context of the invention, the term "antibody" generally comprises monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies and binding fragments thereof, in particular Fc-fragments as well as so called "single-chain-antibodies" (Bird et al. 1988), chimeric, humanized, in particular CDR-grafted antibodies, and di- or tetrabodies (Holliger et al. 1993). Also comprised are

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
25

immunoglobulin-like proteins that are selected through techniques including, for example, phage display to specifically bind to the molecule of interest contained in a sample. In this context the term "specific binding" refers to antibodies raised against the molecule of interest
or a fragment thereof. An antibody is considered to be specific, if its affinity towards the

5 molecule of interest or the aforementioned fragment thereof is at least preferably 50-fold higher, more preferably 100-fold higher, most preferably at least 1000-fold higher than towards other molecules comprised in a sample containing the molecule of interest. It is well

known in the art how to make antibodies and to select antibodies with a given specificity.

10 In a specific embodiment of the invention said anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO .: 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or functional derivative thereof is a monoclonal antibody or a monoclonal antibody fragment thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the anti-DPP3 antibody or the anti-DPP3 antibody fragment binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO .:
15 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or functional derivative thereof is a human or humanized antibody or derived therefrom or humanized antibody fragment or
derived therefrom.

In one specific embodiment one or more (murine) CDR's are grafted into a human antibody 20 or antibody fragment.

In another aspect of the invention, the provided subject matter is a human CDR-grafted antiDPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof that is directed to and binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO .: 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or 25 a functional derivative thereof, and wherein said human CDR-grafted anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof comprises an antibody heavy chain variable region (H chain) comprising

SEQ ID NO .: 4
30
and/or further comprises an antibody light chain variable region (L chain) comprising:

SEQ ID NO .: 5.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
26

Further subject matter of the present invention in another aspect is a human CDR-grafted anti-

DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof that is directed to and binding to an

epitope according to SEQ ID NO .: 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or

a functional derivative thereof, and wherein the said human CDR-grafted anti-DPP3 antibody

5 or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof comprises an antibody heavy chain variable region

(H chain) comprising:

SEQ ID NO .: 11

10 and/or further comprises an antibody light chain variable region (L chain) comprising:

SEQ ID NO .: 12.

In one specific embodiment of the invention subject matter of the present invention is a 15 human monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody or monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof
that is directed to and binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO .: 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or a functional derivative thereof, and wherein the heavy chain comprises at least one CDR of:

20 SEQ ID NO .: 6, SEQ ID NO .: 7 or SEQ ID NO .: 8
and wherein the light chain comprises at least one CDR of:

SEQ ID NO .: 9, KVS or SEQ ID NO .: 10.
25
The amount of DPP3 protein and/ or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject may be determined by different methods, e.g. immunoassays, acitivity assays, mass spectrometric methods etc.
The amount of DPP3 protein and/ or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject
30 may be determined for example by one of the following methods:

1. Luminescence immunoassay for the quantification of DPP3 protein concentrations
(LIA) (Rehfeld et al., JALM, 2018).

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
27

The LIA is a one-step chemiluminescence sandwich immunoassay that uses white high-

binding polystyrene microtiter plates as solid phase. These plates are coated with monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody AK2555 (capture antibody). The tracer anti-DPP3 antibody AK2553 is labeled with MA70-acridinium-NHS-ester and used at a concentration of 20 ng per well. 5 Twenty microliters of samples (e.g. serum, heparin-plasma, citrate-plasma or EDTA-plasma derived from patients' blood) and calibrators are pipetted into coated white microtiter plates. After adding the tracer antibody AK2553, the microtiter plates are incubated for 3 h at room temperature and 600 rpm. Unbound tracer is then removed by 4 washing steps (350 uL per

well). Remaining chemiluminescence is measured for 1s per well by using a microtiter plate 10 luminometer. The concentration of DPP3 is determined with a 6-point calibration curve.
Calibrators and samples are preferably run in duplicate.

2. Enzyme capture activity assay for the quantification of DPP3 activity (ECA) (Rehfeld et al., JALM, 2018).
15
The ECA is a DPP3-specific activity assay that uses black high-binding polystyrene microtiter plates as solid phase. These plates are coated with monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody AK2555 (capture antibody). Twenty microliters of samples (e.g. serum, heparin-plasma, citrate-plasma, EDTA-plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and urine) and calibrators are pipetted into 20 coated black microtiter plates. After adding assay buffer (200 uL), the microtiter plates are incubated for 2 h at 22 and 600 rpm. DPP3 present in the samples is immobilized by binding to the capture antibody. Unbound sample components are removed by 4 washing steps (350 uL per well). The specific activity of immobilized DPP3 is measured by the addition of the fluorogenic substrate, Arg-Arg-B-Naphthylamide (Arg2-BNA), in reaction 25 buffer followed by incubation at 37  for 1 h. DPP3 specifically cleaves Arg2-BNA into Arg-Arg dipeptide and fluorescent ß-naphthylamine. Fluorescence is measured with a fluorometer using an excitation wavelength of 340 nm and emission is detected at 410 nm. The activity of DPP3 is determined with a 6-point calibration curve. Calibrators and samples are preferably run in duplicates.
30
3. Liquid-phase assay for the quantification of DPP3 activity (LAA) (modified from
Jones et al., Analytical Biochemistry, 1982).

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
28

The LAA is a liquid phase assay that uses black non-binding polystyrene microtiter plates to measure DPP3 activity. Twenty microliter of samples (e.g. serum, heparin-plasma, citrateplasma) and calibrators are pipetted into non-binding black microtiter plates. After addition of fluorogenic substrate, Arg2-BNA, in assay buffer (200 uL), the initial BNA fluorescence 5 (T=0) is measured in a fluorimeter using an excitation wavelength of 340 nm and emission is detected at 410 nm. The plate is then incubated at 37  for 1 hour. The final fluorescence of (T=60) is measured. The difference between final and initial fluorescence is calculated. The activity of DPP3 is determined with a 6-point calibration curve. Calibrators and samples are

preferably run in duplicates.

10 The mentioned cut-off values might be different in other assays, if these have been calibrated differently from the assay systems used in the present invention. Therefore, the mentioned cut-off values above shall apply for such differently calibrated assays accordingly, taking into account the differences in calibration. One possibility of quantifying the difference in calibration is a method comparison analysis (correlation) of the assay in question with the
15 respective biomarker assay used in the present invention by measuring the respective biomarker (e.g. DPP3) in samples using both methods. Another possibility is to determine with the assay in question, given this test has sufficient analytical sensitivity, the median biomarker level of a representative normal population, compare results with the median biomarker levels as described in the literature and recalculate the calibration based on the
20 difference obtained by this comparison. With the calibration used in the present invention, samples from normal (healthy) subjects have been measured: median (interquartile range) plasma DPP3 was 24.6 ng/ml (19.2 ng/ml - 32.4 ng/ml).

A variety of immunoassays are known and may be used for the assays and methods of the 25 present invention, these include: radioimmunoassays ("RIA"), homogeneous enzyme-
multiplied immunoassays ("EMIT"), enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assays ("ELISA"), apoenzyme reactivation immunoassay ("ARIS"), chemiluminescence- and fluorescenceimmunoassays, Luminex-based bead arrays, protein microarray assays, and rapid test formats such as for instance immunochromatographic strip tests ("dipstick immunoassays") and 30 immuno-chromotography assays.
In one embodiment of the invention such an assay is a sandwich immunoassay using any kind of detection technology including but not restricted to enzyme label, chemiluminescence label, electrochemiluminescence label, preferably a fully automated assay. In one embodiment

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
29

of the invention such an assay is an enzyme labeled sandwich assay. Examples of automated

or fully automated assay comprise assays that may be used for one of the following systems:

Roche Elecsys®, Abbott Architect®, Siemens Centauer®, Brahms Kryptor®, Biomerieux

Vidas®, Alere Triage®.

5 In one embodiment of the invention it may be a so-called POC-test (point-of-care), that is a test technology which allows performing the test within less than 1 hour near the patient without the requirement of a fully automated assay system. One example for this technology is the immunochromatographic test technology.

In one embodiment of the invention at least one of the binders is labeled in order to be 10 detected.

In a preferred embodiment said label is selected from the group comprising chemiluminescent label, enzyme label, fluorescence label, radioiodine label.

The assays can be homogenous or heterogeneous assays, competitive and non-competitive assays. In one embodiment, the assay is in the form of a sandwich assay, which is a 15 non-competitive immunoassay, wherein the molecule to be detected and/or quantified is bound to a first antibody and to a second antibody. The first antibody may be bound to a solid phase, e.g. a bead, a surface of a well or other container, a chip or a strip, and the second antibody is an antibody which is labeled, e.g. with a dye, with a radioisotope, or a reactive or catalytically active moiety. The amount of labeled antibody bound to the analyte is then 20 measured by an appropriate method. The general composition and procedures involved with "sandwich assays" are well-established and known to the skilled person (The Immunoassay Handbook, Ed. David Wild, Elsevier LTD, Oxford; 3rd ed. (May 2005), ISBN-13: 9780080445267; Hultschig C et al., Curr Opin Chem Biol. 2006 Feb;10(1):4-10. PMID:
16376134).

25 In another embodiment the assay comprises two capture molecules, preferably antibodies which are both present as dispersions in a liquid reaction mixture, wherein a first labelling component is attached to the first capture molecule, wherein said first labelling component is part of a labelling system based on fluorescence- or chemiluminescence-quenching or amplification, and a second labelling component of said marking system is attached to the
30 second capture molecule, so that upon binding of both capture molecules to the analyte a measurable signal is generated that allows for the detection of the formed sandwich
complexes in the solution comprising the sample.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
30

In another embodiment, said labeling system comprises rare earth cryptates or rare earth

chelates in combination with fluorescence dye or chemiluminescence dye, in particular a dye

of the cyanine type.

In the context of the present invention, fluorescence based assays comprise the use of dyes, 5 which may for instance be selected from the group comprising FAM (5-or
6-carboxyfluorescein), VIC, NED, Fluorescein, Fluoresceinisothiocyanate (FITC), IRD-700/800, Cyanine dyes, auch as CY3, CY5, CY3.5, CY5.5, Cy7, Xanthen, 6-Carboxy2',4',7',4,7-hexachlorofluorescein (HEX), TET, 6-Carboxy-4',5'-dichloro-2',7'dimethodyfluorescein (JOE), N,N,N',N'-Tetramethyl-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA), 10 6-Carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX), 5-Carboxyrhodamine-6G (R6G5), 6-carboxyrhodamine-6G (RG6), Rhodamine, Rhodamine Green, Rhodamine Red, Rhodamine 110, BODIPY dyes, such as BODIPY TMR, Oregon Green, Coumarines such as Umbelliferone, Benzimides, such as Hoechst 33258; Phenanthridines, such as Texas Red, Yakima Yellow, Alexa Fluor, PET, Ethidiumbromide, Acridinium dyes, Carbazol dyes, Phenoxazine dyes, Porphyrine dyes, 15 Polymethin dyes, and the like.

In the context of the present invention, chemiluminescence based assays comprise the use of dyes, based on the physical principles described for chemiluminescent materials in (Kirk-
Othmer, Encyclopedia of chemical technology, 4th ed., executive editor, J. I. Kroschwitz; editor, M. Howe-Grant, John Wiley & Sons, 1993, vol.15, p. 518-562, incorporated herein by
20 reference, including citations on pages 551-562). Preferred chemiluminescent dyes are
acridiniumesters.

As mentioned herein, an "assay" or "diagnostic assay" can be of any type applied in the field of diagnostics. Such an assay may be based on the binding of an analyte to be detected to one or more capture probes with a certain affinity. Concerning the interaction between capture
25 molecules and target molecules or molecules of interest, the affinity constant is preferably
greater than 108 M-1.

DPP3 activity can be measured by detection of cleavage products of DPP3 specific substrates. Known peptide hormone substrates include Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH (Adrenocorticotropic 30 hormone) and MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormone; Abramis et al. 2000, Barsun et al. 2007, Dhanda et al. 2008). The cleavage of mentioned peptide hormones as well as other untagged oligopeptides (e.g. Ala-Ala-Ala-Ala, Dhanda et al. 2008) can be monitored by detection of the respective cleavage products. Detection methods include, but are not limited

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
31

to, HPLC analysis (e.g. Lee & Snyder 1982), mass spectrometry (e.g. Abramis et al. 2000),

H1-NMR analysis (e.g. Vandenberg et al. 1985), capillary zone electrophoresis (CE; e.g.

Barsun et al. 2007), thin layer chromatography (e.g. Dhanda et al. 2008) or reversed phase

chromatography (e.g. Mazocco et al. 2006).

5
Detection of fluorescence due to hydrolysis of fluorogenic substrates by DPP3 is a standard procedure to monitor DPP3 activity. Those substrates are specific di- or tripeptides (Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala, Leu-Gly, LysAla, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-Phe) coupled to a fluorophore. Fluorophores include but are not 10 limited to ß-naphtylamide (2-naphtylamide, BNA, 2NA), 4-methoxy-ß-naphtylamide (4-methoxy-2-naphtylamide) and 7-amido-4-methylcoumarin (AMC, MCA; Abramis et al. 2000, Ohkubo et al. 1999). Cleavage of these fluorogenic substrates leads to the release of fluorescent ß-naphtylamine or 7-amino-4-methylcoumarin respectively. In a liquid phase assay or an ECA substrate and DPP3 are incubated in for example a 96 well plate format and 15 fluorescence is measured using a fluorescence detector (Ellis & Nuenke 1967). Additionally, DPP3 carrying samples can be immobilized and divided on a gel by electrophoresis, gels stained with fluorogenic substrate (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA) and Fast Garnet GBC and fluorescent protein bands detected by a fluorescence reader (Ohkubo et al. 1999). The same peptides
(Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala,
20 Leu-Gly, Lys-Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-Phe) can be coupled to chromophores, such as p-nitroanilide diacetate. Detection of color change due to hydrolysis of chromogenic substrates can be used to monitor DPP3 activity.

Another option for the detection of DPP3 activity is a Protease-GloTMM Assay (commercially 25 available at Promega). In this embodiment of said method DPP3 specific di- or tripeptides
(Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala, Leu-Gly, Lys-Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-Phe) are coupled to aminoluciferin. Upon cleavage by DPP3, aminoluciferin is released and serves as a substrate for a coupled luciferase reaction that emits detectable luminescence.
30
In a preferred embodiment DPP3 activity is measured by addition of the fluorogenic substrate Arg-Arg-BNA and monitoring fluorescence in real time.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
32

In a specific embodiment of said method for determining active DPP3 in a bodily fluid

sample of a subject said capture binder reactive with DPP3 is immobilized on a solid phase.

The test sample is passed over the immobile binder, and DPP3, if present, binds to the binder 5 and is itself immobilized for detection. A substrate may then be added, and the reaction
product may be detected to indicate the presence or amount of DPP3 in the test sample. For the purposes of the present description, the term "solid phase" may be used to include any material or vessel in which or on which the assay may be performed and includes, but is not limited to: porous materials, nonporous materials, test tubes, wells, slides, agarose resins 10 (e.g. Sepharose from GE Healthcare Life Sciences), magnetic particals (e.g. DynabeadsTMM or PierceTMM magnetic beads from Thermo Fisher Scientific), etc.

Binders of protein or peptide origin (e.g. antibody, antibody fragments, non-Ig scaffold) are immobilized onto the solid phase by methods comprising: physical adsorption (e.g. by 15 electrostatic interaction or hydrophobic interaction), bioaffinity immobilization (e.g. avidinbiotin, protein A/ G/ L, His-tag and Ni2+-NTA, GST-tag and gluthatione, DNA hybridization, aptamers), covalent bond (e.g. amine and N-hydroxysuccinimide) or a combination of said immobilization methods (Kim & Herr 2013). Binders of oligonucleotide origin (e.g. aptamers) may be immobilized onto the solid phase by utilization of the (strept)avidin20 biotin system (Müller et al. 2012, Deng et al. 2014).

In a specific embodiment of said method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of a subject said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3. That separation 25 step can be any other step that separates DPP3 bound to said capture-binder from the ingredients of said bodily fluid sample.

In a specific embodiment of said method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of a subject said DPP3 substrate conversion by immobilized DPP3 is measured 30 (detected) by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-ßNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
33

electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot

(cleavage products).

In a specific embodiment of said method for determining DPP3 acitivity in a bodily fluid 5 sample of a subject said substrate may be selected from the group comprising:
Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin,
dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di- and tri-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay). Di- or tripeptides that are cleaved by DPP3 include, but are not limited to, Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, 10 Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala, Leu-Gly, Lys-Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-
Phe. Fluorophores include but are not limited to ß-naphtylamide (2-naphtylamide, ßNA,
2NA), 4-methoxy-B-naphtylamide (4-methoxy-2-naphtylamide) and 7-amido-4methylcoumarin (AMC, MCA; Abramic et al. 2000, Ohkubo et al. 1999). Cleavage of these fluorogenic substrates leads to the release of fluorescent ß-naphtylamine or 7-amino-4-
15 methylcoumarin respectively. Chromophores include but are not limited to p-nitroanilide
diacetate (pNA). The hydrolysis of a peptide-pNA bond in the chromogenic substrates results in the release of pNA which in turn changes color. Thus, the change in absorbance (DA/min) is directly proportional to the enzymatic activity. Using the Protease-GloTTMM Assay from
Promega, upon cleavage by DPP3, aminoluciferin is released and serves as a substrate for a 20 coupled luciferase reaction that emits detectable luminescence.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises 25 the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

30

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, and quantifying of said DPP3

activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. quantifying the amount of DPP3 protein

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
34

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor

thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein the method for determining

the DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

5

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

10

substrate of DPP3.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said 15 determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor 20 thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein
and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

25 One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein the amount of total DPP3 and/or the amount of active DPP3 is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a solid phase.
30
One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject with the above

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
35

described methods and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes

ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the 5 amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as
therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the 10 amount DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as
therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-
Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II,
angiotensin III, Angiotensin IV as above outlined.
15
One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of total DPP3 and/or an amount of active DPP3 in a sample of a bodily fluid of said
subject as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-
Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein said amount of DPP3protein and/or 20 said DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least
once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the 25 amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as
therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

30 One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
36

Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

5

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, and quantifying said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3, or
· quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

10
One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 proein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein the method for determining active DPP3 in a 15 bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, and quantifying said DPP3 activity

20

by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. Quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as 25 therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG
30 scaffold.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
37

Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3

activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said

capture-binder is an antibody.

5

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 10 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the 15 amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as
therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture20 binder from the captured DPP3.

Subject-matter of the present invention is also the use of a method or assay or kit for

determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of

said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said method

25 is comprising the steps:

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein

an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk of said

30

adverse events.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
38

In the context of the present invention, the term prognosis denotes a prediction of how a

patient's medical condition will progress. This may include an estimation of the chance of

recovery or the chance of an adverse event for said patient.

5 As used herein, an adverse event is defined as organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function or mortality.

In the context of the present invention, said subject has a disease selected from the group comprising subjects with an elevated risk to develop sepsis, subjects suspected of having 10 sepsis, SIRS, sepsis, shock as e.g. septic shock, acute and chronic vascular diseases as e.g. acute heart failure, myocardial infarction, stroke; organ dysfunction of at least one organ, , fluid dysbalance and low blood pressure.

In a preferred embodiment said adverse event is organ dysfunction or worsening of organ 15 function and said subject has a disease selected from the group comprising subjects with an
elevated risk to develop sepsis, subjects suspected of having sepsis, SIRS, sepsis and shock as e.g. septic shock.
As used herein, organ dysfunction denotes a condition or a state of health where an organ does not perform its expected function. "Organ failure" denotes an organ dysfunction to such 20 a degree that normal homeostasis cannot be maintained without external clinical intervention. Said organ failure may pertain an organ selected from the group comprising kidney, liver, heart, lung, nervous system. By contrast, organ function represents the expected function of the respective organ within physiologic ranges. The person skilled in the art is aware of the respective function of an organ during medical examination.
25 Organ dysfunction may be defined by the sequential organ failure assessment score (SOFAScore) or the components thereof. The SOFA score, previously known as the sepsis-related organ failure assessment score (Singer et al. 2016. JAMA 315(8):801-10) is used to track a person's status during the stay in an intensive care unit (ICU) to determine the extent of a person's organ function or rate of failure. The score is based on six different scores, one each
30 for the respiratory, cardiovascular, hepatic, coagulation, renal and neurological systems each scored from 0 to 4 with an increasing score reflecting worsening organ dysfunction. The criteria for assessment of the SOFA score are described for example in Lamden et al. (for

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
39

review see Lambden et al. 2019. Critical Care 23:374). SOFA score may traditionally be

calculated on admission to ICU and at each 24-h period that follows.

In particular, said organ dysfunction is selected from the group comprising renal decline,

cardiac dysfunction, liver dysfunction or respiratory tract dysfunction.

5
In one aspect of the invention said mortality is defined as death after a defined time, e.g. after 24 hours to 3 months, preferrably after 24 hours to 2 months, more preferrable after 24 hours to 30 days, even more preferred after 24 hours to 28 days, even more preferred after 24 hours to 14 days, even more preferred after 24 hours to 7 days, even more preferred after 24 hours 10 to 5 days, even more preferred after 24 hours to 3 days, most preferred after 24 hours to 48
hours.

Another specific embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of 15 said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for 20 prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the
steps:
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,
25 · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by
measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or . quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.
30 Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
40

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,
· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

5 substrate of DPP3.

in

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein 10 and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody
fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

15 Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to
20 full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein 25 and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining 30 the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject
for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
41

Another specific embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse even in said subject, wherein the DPP3 5 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-ßNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion 10 chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot
(cleavage products).

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining 15 the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject
for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or 20 di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide
is Arg-Arg.

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject 25 for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
30 Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining
the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function , wherein said
method is comprising the steps: · determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject; 35 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
42

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an

elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk of said organ

dysfunction or worsening of organ function.

5 Another specific embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.
10
One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid 15 sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

20

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by

measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining 25 the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject
for prognosing the risk of an an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

30

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
43

· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3.

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining 5 the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject
for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capturebinder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected 10 from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said 15 subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capturebinder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

Another specific embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for 20 determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of
said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is 25 immobilized on a surface.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, 30 wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
44

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and 5 wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group

comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin

(Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone 10 electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3)

or western blot (cleavage products).

Another embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject 15 for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a 20 chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

One embodiment of the invention is the use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, 25 wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
Subject-matter of the present invention is also a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse 30 event in said subject, wherein said method is comprising the steps:
· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject; · comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
45

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk of said

adverse events.

5 Subject-matter of the present invention is also a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole 10 blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

Another specific embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

15
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

. adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by

20

measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of 25 said subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

30

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
46

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be

5 selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a 10 capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an
antibody.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a 15 bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event 20 in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a
bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

25 Another embodiment of the invention is a method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-ArgAMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to
30 aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
47

A further embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an adverse

event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said

subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II,

III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, 5 dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a

chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

One embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject 10 and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

One embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ

dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein said method is

15 comprising the steps:

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk of said

20

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function.

Another specific embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum. 25
One embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:
30
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,
· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
48

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

5 Another embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

10

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, . quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a
substrate of DPP3.

15
Another specific embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to 20 full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

A further embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 25 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

One embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ 30 dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3
protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
49

Another embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ

dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are

5 not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

Another specific embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion 10 is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel 15 electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

Another specific embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity 20 is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Metenkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
25
Another embodiment of the invention is the method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or 30 aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

Further embodiments of the invention are:

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
50

Use of an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof in the manufacture of a

medicament for the treatment of a disease in a subject,

· wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic

heart failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver

5

failure, burn injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g.

AIDS), parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney

injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g. seizures, neurodegenerative diseases),

autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases, hypotension, and shock and

· wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a

10

sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

The use according to item 1, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in particular Angiotensin II.
15
The use according to item 1 or 2, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or said DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor
thereof.
20
The use according to any of items 1 to 3, wherein determination of the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is used as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof. 25
The use according to any of items 1 to 4, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

The use according to any of items 1 to 5, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or 30 a precursor thereof is administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
51

The use according to item 6, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II acetate and said pharmaceutical formulation is in a dried state to be

reconstituted before use.

5 The use to any of items 1 to 7, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate between 0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between 2 and 80 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 15 and 40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a
10 rate of 20 ng/kg/min

The use according to any of items 1 to 8, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, in particular Angiotensin II, is administered in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3.
15
The use according to item 9, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is selected from the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

20 The use according to any of items 9 to 10, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold that binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to SEQ ID NO. 2.

The use according to any of items 9 to 11, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or 25 fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than
10-7 M.

The use according to any of items 9 to 12, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific. 30
The use according to any of items 9 to 13, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to full-length DPP3 and inhibits activity of DPP3 of at least 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred more than 70 %, even more

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
52

preferred more than 80 %, even more preferred more than 90 %, even more preferred more

than 95 %.

The use according to any of items 1 to 14, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 5 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

10

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity

by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

· quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

The use according to any of items 1 to 15, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity 15 in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

20

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

. quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

The use according to any of items 1 to 16, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 25 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination
comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG
scaffold.

30 The use according to any of items 1 to 17, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
53

The use according to any of items 1 to 18, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3

activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said

capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

5

The use according to any of items 16 to 19, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capturebinder from the captured DPP3.
10

The use according to any of items 16 to 20, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of 15 substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

20 The use according to any of items 16 to 21, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
25
The use according to any of items 16 to 22, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
30
A method of treatment of a disease in a subject, the method comprising administering an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof to said subject,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
54

· wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic

heart failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver

failure, burn injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g.

5

AIDS), parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney

injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g. seizures, neurodegenerative diseases),

autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases, hypotension, and shock and

· wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a

sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

10
The method according to item 1, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in particular Angiotensin II.

15 The method according to item 1 or 2, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or said DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor
thereof.

20 The method according to any of items 1 to 3, wherein determination of the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is used as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.
25 The method according to any of items 1 to 4, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.
The method according to any of items 1 to 5, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.
30
The method according to item 6, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II acetate and said pharmaceutical formulation is in a dried state to be reconstituted before use.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
55

The method according to any of items 1 to 7, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate between 0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between 2 and 5 80 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 15 and 40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a rate of 20 ng/kg/min
The method according to any of items 1 to 8, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist 10 and/ or a precursor thereof, in particular Angiotensin II, is administered in combination with
an inhibitor of DPP3.

The method according to item 9, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is selected from the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig
15 scaffold.

The method according to any of items 9 to 10, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold that binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to SEQ ID NO. 2.
20
The method according to any of items 9 to 11, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than 10-7 M.

25 The method according to any of items 9 to 12, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific.

The method according to any of items 9 to 13, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to full-length DPP3 and inhibits activity of DPP3 of at least 30 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred more than 70 %, even more preferred more than 80 %, even more preferred more than 90 %, even more preferred more than 95 %.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
56

The method according to any of items 1 to 14, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

in

5

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity
by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

10

· quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

The method according to any of items 1 to 15, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

15

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

20

substrate of DPP3.

The method according to any of items 1 to 16, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length 25 DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

The method according to any of items 1 to 17, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said 30 determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
57

The method according to any of items 1 to 18, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said

determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

5

in

The method according to any of items 16 to 19, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.
10

The method according to any of items 16 to 20, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g.
Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of
15 substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

20 The method according to any of items 16 to 21, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
25
The method according to any of items 16 to 22, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.
30
Further embodiments of the invention are:

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
58

1. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject,

· wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic

5

heart failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver

failure, burn injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g.

AIDS), parasitic diseases (e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney

injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g. seizures, neurodegenerative diseases),

autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases and hypotension, and

10

· wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a

sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

2. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to item 1, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist

15

and/or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I,

Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in particular Angiotensin II.

3. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to item 1 or 2, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or

20

said DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least

once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a

precursor thereof.

4. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

25

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 3, wherein determination of the amount

of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is used as

therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-

Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

30 5. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 4, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
59

6. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 5, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-

Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical

formulation.

5
7. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to item 6, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II acetate and said pharmaceutical formulation is in a dried state to be reconstituted before use.

10
8. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 7, wherein said Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate between

0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between

15

2 and 80 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more

preferred between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 15 and

40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a rate of 20 ng/kg/min

9. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

20

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 8, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-

Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, in particular Angiotensin II, is administered in

combination with an inhibitor of DPP3.

10. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

25

disease in a subject according to item 9, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is selected from

the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-

DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

11. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

30

disease in a subject according to any of items 9 to 10, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an

anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold that

binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to SEQ ID NO. 2.

12. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

35

disease in a subject according to any of items 9 to 11, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
60

antibody or fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of

equal or less than 10-7 M.

13. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

5

disease in a subject according to any of items 9 to 12, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an

antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific.

14. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of items 9 to 13, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an

10

antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to full-length DPP3 and inhibits activity of DPP3

of at least 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred more

than 70 %, even more preferred more than 80 %, even more preferred more than

90 %, even more preferred more than 95 %.

15 15. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 14, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and
comprises the steps:

20

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity
by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

25

. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

16. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 15, wherein the method for determining

DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

30

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791 61

. quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

17. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

5

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 16, wherein the amount of DPP3

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody,

antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

10
18. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 17, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

15

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

19. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 18, wherein the amount of DPP3

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

20

wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

20. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of items 16 to 19, wherein the amount of DPP3

25

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that

are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

21. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

30

disease in a subject according to any of items 16 to 20, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate

conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of

fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic

substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
62

GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size

exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel

electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot

(cleavage products).

5
22. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of items 16 to 21, wherein the DPP3 activity is
determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin,

10

Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin,

ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or

aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

23. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

15

disease in a subject according to any of items 16 to 22, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a

chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

20 24. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor
thereof.

25 25. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according to item 24, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected from the group
comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in

30

particular Angiotensin II.

26. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according to item 24 or 25,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
63

wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity has been determined in a

sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least once before and/or during the treatment with

said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

5 27. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 24 to 26, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood,
blood plasma and blood serum.

10

28. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with
Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 24 to 27, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

15

fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

20

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity

by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

29. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

25

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 24 to

28, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said

subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

30

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, · quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
64

30. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

5

29, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder

may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

10 31. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

30, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

15

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is

an antibody.

32. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

20

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

31, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is

immobilized on a surface.

25

33. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

32, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

30

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that

removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the

captured DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
65

34. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

33, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

5

wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group

comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-ßNA, Arg-Arg-AMC),

color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to

aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-Glo1M Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC

(reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer

10

chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity

staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

35. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

15

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

34, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and

IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a

20

chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

36. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of items 28 to

25

35, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled

to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

37. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

30

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 23, wherein said treatment with an

angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may be discontinued when the

patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid

that is below a predetermined threshold level.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
66

38. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of items 1 to 23 and 27, wherein said treatment with

an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may startet once the patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is

5

above a predetermined threshold level.

With the above context, the following consecutively numbered embodiments provide further specific aspects of the invention:

10 1. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject,

· wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic heart

failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver failure, burn

15

injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g. AIDS), parasitic diseases

(e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g.

seizures, neurodegenerative diseases), autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases,

hypotension, and shock and

· wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of

20 bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

2. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to embodiment 1, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-

Agonist and/or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I,

25

Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in particular Angiotensin II.

3. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to embodiment 1 or 2, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or said DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at

30

least once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/

or a precursor thereof.

4. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 3, wherein determination of the

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
67

amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is

used as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-

Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

5 5. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 4, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

6. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

10

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 5, wherein said Angiotensin-

Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is administered to said subject in a

pharmaceutical formulation.

7. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a 15 disease in a subject according to embodiment 6, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-
Agonist and/or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II acetate and said pharmaceutical formulation is in a dried state to be reconstituted before use.

8. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

20

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 7, wherein said Angiotensin-

Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate

between 0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between 2 and 80 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more

preferred between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 15 and

25

40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a rate of 20 ng/kg/min

9. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 8, wherein said AngiotensinReceptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, in particular Angiotensin II, is administered
30 in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3.

10. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to embodiment 9, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is selected

from the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-

35

DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
68

11. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 9 to 10, wherein said inhibitor of

DPP3 is an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig

5

scaffold that binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to SEQ ID NO. 2.

12. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 9 to 11, wherein said inhibitor of

DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to

10

DPP3 of equal or less than 10-7 M.

13. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 9 to 12, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific.
15
14. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 9 to 13, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to full-length DPP3 and inhibits activity of DPP3 of at least 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred
20 more than 70 %, even more preferred more than 80 %, even more preferred more than 90 %, even more preferred more than 95 %.

15. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 14, wherein the amount of DPP3
25 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and
comprises the steps:
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, 30 · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by
measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or . quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791

69

16. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 15, wherein the method for

determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

5 · Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, . quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3.

10
17 Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 16, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

15

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody,

antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

18. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 17, wherein the amount of DPP3

20

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

19. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

25

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 18, wherein the amount of DPP3

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

30 20. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 16 to 19, wherein the amount of
DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample
that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
70

21. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 16 to 20, wherein the DPP3 activity

is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate

5

conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of

fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic

substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTM

Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion

chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel

10

electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot

(cleavage products).

22. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 16 to 21, wherein the DPP3 activity
15 is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be
selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or
aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

20
23. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 16 to 22, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore

25

or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

24. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or
therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor

30

thereof.

25. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according to embodiment 24,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
71

wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in

particular Angiotensin II.

5 26. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according to embodiment 24 or

25, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity has been determined in a

sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least once before and/or during the treatment with

10

said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

27. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments

15

24 to 26, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood,

blood plasma and blood serum.

28. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

20

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments

24 to 27, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a

bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, 25 · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,
· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or
. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

30 29. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments 24 to 28, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of
said subject comprises the steps:

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
72

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

. quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

5

substrate of DPP3.

30. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments
10 28 to 29, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

15 31. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments
28 to 30, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a

bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

20

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an

antibody.

32. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

25

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments

28 to 31, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a

bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is

immobilized on a surface.

30
33. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments
28 to 32, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
73

bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the

captured DPP3.

5 34. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments

28 to 33, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group

10

comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-ßNA, Arg-Arg-AMC),

color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to

aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-Glo1M Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC

(reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer

chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity

15

staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

35. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments

20

28 to 34, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III

and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a

chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

25
36. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of embodiments 28 to 35, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

30

and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide

coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-

Arg.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
74

37. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said method is comprising the steps:

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

5

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject,

wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

of said adverse events.

10 38. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

15 39. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

20

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by
measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

25

· quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

40. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a
30 bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,
· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
75

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, . quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a
substrate of DPP3.

5 41. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein

10

said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-

IgG scaffold.

42. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

15

adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein

said capture-binder is an antibody.

20 43. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein

25

said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

44. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is

30

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a

washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-

binder from the captured DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
76

45. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid

sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method

5

selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-

BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates

coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer

chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity

10

staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

46. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid

15

sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group

comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides
coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-

Arg.

20
47. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid

sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group

25

comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin

wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

48. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

30

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said object, wherein said method is

comprising the steps: · determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
77

. correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

of said an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function.

5 49. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

10 50. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

and comprises the steps:

15
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length
DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by

20

measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

· quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

51. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an an

25

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the method for

determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

30

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, · quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a
substrate of DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
78

52. £ The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of

DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

5

and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds

specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the

group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

53. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

10

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of

DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds

specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

15

54. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of

DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject

20

and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds

specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

55. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an
25 organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample
that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

30 56. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate
conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
79

fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic

substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM

Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion

chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel

5

electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot

(cleavage products).

57. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

10

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3

activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate

may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin,

Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or

15

aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

58. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject for prognosing the risk of an

organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the DPP3

20

activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate

may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a

chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

59. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said

25

method is comprising the steps:

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

30

of said adverse events.

60. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
80

61 A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

5

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity

10

by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

. quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

62. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises

15

the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length
DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

20

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

. quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

63. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

25

amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of

said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that

binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from

the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

30 64. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
81

65. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of

said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that

binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a

5

surface.

66. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of

said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of

10

the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

67. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3

substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group comprising:

15

fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change

of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega

Protease-GloTM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase

chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary

zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active

20

DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

68. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said

substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-

25

enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin,

proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or

aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

69. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein the

30

DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said

substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a

fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

70. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ 35 function in said subject, wherein said method is comprising the steps:

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
82

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject,

wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

5

of said organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function.

71. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction in said subject, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and
blood serum.
10
72. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

15

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length

DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

20 . quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

73. £ A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily

fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

25

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

30

· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
83

74. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein

5

said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-

IgG scaffold.

75. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is
10 determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

76. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

15

function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination

comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein

said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

20 77. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capturebinder from the captured DPP3.

25

78. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample

of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected

from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA,

30

Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates

coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/

FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer

chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity

staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
84

79. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample

of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising:

angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2,

5

valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled

to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

80 A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample

10

of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A

di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-

peptide is Arg-Arg.

81. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

15

disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 23, wherein said treatment with

an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may be discontinued when the

patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid

that is below a predetermined threshold level.

20 82. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of embodiments 1 to 23 and 81, wherein said treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may startet once
the patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold level.
25

WO 2020/128039
85
FIGURE DESCRIPTION

PCT/EP2019/086791

Figure 1: Kaplan Meyer survival plots in relation to low (< 68.6 ng/ml) and high ( 68.6 ng/ml) DPP3 plasma concentrations 5 (A) 7-Day survival of patients with sepsis/septic shock in relation to DPP3 plasma concentration (cut-off 68.6 ng/ml); (B) 7-Day survival of Patients with cardiogenic shock in relation to DPP3 plasma concentration (cut-off 68.6 ng/ml); (C) 7-day survival of patients with acute myocardial infarction in relation to DPP3 plasma concentration (cut-off 68.6 ng/ml); (D) 3-month survival of patients with dyspnea in relation to DPP3 plasma 10 concentration; (E) 4-week survival of burned patients in relation to DPP3 plasma concentration. (F) 7-Day survival of patients with septic shock in relation to DPP3 plasma
concentration
Figure 2: SDS-PAGE on a gradient gel (4-20%) of native hDPP3 purified from human erythrocyte lysate. Molecular weight marker is indicated as arrows.
15
Figure 3: Experimental design - Effect of native DPP3 in an animal model.
Figure 4: (A) DPP3 injection causes shortening fraction reduction and therefore leads to
deteriorating heart function. (B) Decreased kidney function is also observed via increased 20 renal resistive index.
Figure 5: Association- and dissociation curve of the AK1967-DPP3 binding analysis using Octet. AK1967 loaded biosensors were dipped into a dilution series of recombinant GST-tagged human DPP3 (100, 33.3, 11.1, 3.7 nM) and association and dissociation
25 monitored.
Figure 6: Western Blot of dilutions of blood cell lysate and detection of DPP3 with AK1967 as primary antibody.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
86

Figure 7: Inhibition curve of native DPP3 from blood cells with inhibitory antibody AK1967.

Inhibition of DPP3 by a specific antibody is concentration dependent, with an IC50 at

~15 ng/ml when analyzed against 15 ng/ml DPP3.

5 Figure 8: Experimental setup - Effect of Procizumab in sepsis-induced heart failure.

Figure 9: Procizumab drastically improves shortening fraction (A) and mortality rate (B) in sepsis-induced heart failure rats.

10 Figure 10: Experimental design - Isoproterenol-induced cardiac stress in mice followed by Procizumab treatment (B) and control (A).

Figure 11: Procizumab improved shortening fraction (A) and reduced the renal resistive index (B) within 1 hour and 6 hours after administration, respectively, in isoproterenol15 induced heart failure mice.

Figure 12: Experimental setup - effect of Valsartan in healthy mice injected with DPP3.

Figure 13: Reduction in the shortening fraction by DPP3 is rescued by the Valsartan
20 treatment.
Figure 14: High concentrations of DPP3 levels 24 hours after admission of septic patients
were associated with worst SOFA scores.
25 Figure 15: High cDPP3 plasma levels correlate with organ dysfunction in septic patients. Barplots of SOFA score in AdrenOSS1 according to the evolution of DPP3 levels during ICU
stay. HH: DPP3 above median on admission and at 24h; HL: above median on admission but below median at 24h; LL: below median on admission and at 24h; LH: below median on admission but above median at 24h.
30
Figure 16: High concentrations of cDPP3 levels 24 hours after admission of septic patients were associated with worst SOFA scores by organ. (A) cardiac, (B) renal, (C) respiratory, (D)

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
87

liver, (E) coagulation and (F) central nervous system SOFA scores values according to

dynamics levels of cDPP3 between admission and 24h (HH: High/High, HL: High/Low, LH:

Low/High, LL: Low/Low).

5 EXAMPLES
Example 1 - Methods for the measurement of DPP 3 protein and DPP3 activity
Generation of antibodies and determination DPP3 binding ability: Several murine antibodies were produced and screened by their ability of binding human DPP3 in a specific binding assay (see Table 1).
10 Peptides/ conjugates for immunization:
DPP3 peptides for immunization were synthesized, see Table 1, (JPT Technologies, Berlin,
Germany) with an additional N-terminal cystein (if no cystein is present within the selected DPP3-sequence) residue for conjugation of the peptides to Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA). The peptides were covalently linked to BSA by using Sulfolink-coupling gel (Perbio-science, .15 Bonn, Germany). The coupling procedure was performed according to the manual of Perbio. Recombinant GST-hDPP3 was produced by USBio (United States Biological, Salem, MA,
USA).
Immunization of mice, immune cell fusion and screening:
Balb/c mice were intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected with 84 µg GST-hDPP3 or 100 µg 20 DPP3-peptide-BSA-conjugates at day 0 (emulsified in TiterMax Gold Adjuvant), 84 µg or
100 µg at day 14 (emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant) and 42 ug or 50 µg at day 21 and 28 (in incomplete Freund's adjuvant). At day 49 the animal received an intravenous (i.v.) injection of 42 µg GST-hDPP3 or 50 µg DPP3-peptide-BSA-conjugates dissolved in saline. Three days later the mice were sacrificed and the immune cell fusion was performed.
25 Splenocytes from the immunized mice and cells of the myeloma cell line SP2/0 were fused with 1 ml 50% polyethylene glycol for 30 s at 37. After washing, the cells were seeded in 96-well cell culture plates. Hybrid clones were selected by growing in HAT medium [RPMI 1640 culture medium supplemented with 20% fetal calf serum and HAT-Supplement]. After one week, the HAT medium was replaced with HT Medium for three passages followed by
30 returning to the normal cell culture medium.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791 88

The cell culture supernatants were primarily screened for recombinant DPP3 binding IgG

antibodies two weeks after fusion. Therefore, recombinant GST-tagged hDPP3

(USBiologicals, Salem, USA) was immobilized in 96-well plates (100 ng/ well) and incubated

with 50 ul cell culture supernatant per well for 2 hours at room temperature. After washing of

5 the plate, 50 ul / well POD-rabbit anti mouse IgG was added and incubated for 1 h at RT.

After a next washing step, 50 ul of a chromogen solution (3,7 mM o-phenylendiamine in

citrate/ hydrogen phosphate buffer, 0.012% H2O2) were added to each well, incubated for 15

minutes at RT and the chromogenic reaction stopped by the addition of 50 ul 4N sulfuric acid.

Absorption was detected at 490 mm.

10 The positive tested microcultures were transferred into 24-well plates for propagation. After retesting the selected cultures were cloned and re-cloned using the limiting-dilution technique and the isotypes were determined.

Mouse monoclonal antibody production

Antibodies raised against GST-tagged human DPP3 or DPP3-peptides were produced via 15 standard antibody production methods (Marx et al. 1997) and purified via Protein A. The
antibody purities were  90% based on SDS gel electrophoresis analysis.
Characterization of antibodies - binding to hDPP3 and/ or immunization peptide

To analyze the capability of DPP3/ immunization peptide binding by the different antibodies and antibody clones a binding assay was performed:

20

a) Solid phase

Recombinant GST-tagged hDPP3 (SEQ ID NO. 1) or a DPP3 peptide (immunization peptide, SEQ ID NO. 2) was immobilized onto a high binding microtiter plate surface (96-Well
polystyrene microplates, Greiner Bio-One international AG, Austria, 1 g/well in coupling buffer [50 mM Tris, 100 mM NaCl, pH7,8], 1h at RT). After blocking with 5% bovine serum
25 albumin, the microplates were vacuum dried.

b) Labelling procedure (Tracer)

100 µg (100 ul) of the different antiDPP3 antibodies (detection antibody, 1 mg/ ml in PBS, pH 7.4) were mixed with 10 ul acridinium NHS-ester (1 mg/ml in acetonitrile, InVent GmbH, Germany; EP 0 353 971) and incubated for 30 min at room temperature. Labelled antiDPP3 30 antibody was purified by gel-filtration HPLC on Shodex Protein 5 um KW-803 (Showa Denko, Japan). The purified labeled antibody was diluted in assay buffer (50 mmol/l

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
89

potassium phosphate, 100 mmol/l NaCl, 10 mmol/l Na2-EDTA, 5 g/l bovine serum albumin,

1 g/l murine IgG, 1 g/l bovine IgG, 50 umol/l amastatin, 100 umol/l leupeptin, pH 7.4). The

final concentration was approx. 5-7*106 relative light units (RLU) of labelled compound

(approx. 20 ng labeled antibody) per 200 ul. acridinium ester chemiluminescence was

5 measured by using a Centro LB 960 luminometer (Berthold Technologies Gmbh & Co. KG).

c) hDPP3 binding assay

The plates were filled with 200 ul of labeled and diluted detection antibody (tracer) and incubated for 2-4 h at 2-8 . Unbound tracer was removed by washing 4 times with 350 ul washing solution (20 mM PBS, pH 7.4, 0.1 % Triton X-100). Well-bound chemiluminescence 10 was measured by using the Centro LB 960 luminometer (Berthold Technologies Gmbh & Co. KG).

Characterization of antibodies - hDPP3-inhibition analysis

To analyze the capability of DPP3 inhibition by the different antibodies and antibody clones a
DPP3 activity assay with known procedure (Jones et al., 1982) was performed. Recombinant 15 GST-tagged hDPP3 was diluted in assay buffer (25 ng/ ml GST-DPP3 in 50 mM Tris-HCI,
pH7,5 and 100 uM ZnCl2) and 200 ul of this solution incubated with 10 µg of the respective antibody at room temperature. After 1 hour of pre-incubation, fluorogenic substrate Arg-ArgBNA (20 ul, 2mM) was added to the solution and the generation of free NA over time was monitored using the Twinkle LB 970 microplate fluorometer (Berthold Technologies GmbH 20 & Co. KG) at 37 . Fluorescence of BNA is detected by exciting at 340 nm and measuring emission at 410 nm. Slopes (in RFU/ min) of increasing fluorescence of the different samples are calculated. The slope of GST-hDPP3 with buffer control is appointed as 100 % activity. The inhibitory ability of a possible capture-binder is defined as the decrease of GST-hDPP3 activity by incubation with said capture-binder in percent.

25 The following table represents a selection of obtained antibodies and their binding rate in Relative Light Units (RLU) as well as their relative inhibitory ability (%; table 1). The monoclonal antibodies raised against the below depicted DPP3 regions, were selected by their ability to bind recombinant DPP3 and/ or immunization peptide, as well as by their inhibitory potential.
30 All antibodies raised against the GST-tagged, full length form of recombinant hDPP3 show a strong binding to immobilized GST-tagged hDPP3. Also antibodies raised against the SEQ ID

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
90

NO .: 2 peptide bind to GST-hDPP3. The SEQ ID NO .: 2 antibodies also strongly bind to the

immunization peptide.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
91

Sequence Antigen/ Immunogen
number

hDPP3

hDPP3
Clone binding

region

[RLU]

immunization Max.

peptide

inhibiti

binding [RLU]

of hDPI

2552 3.053.621 0

65%

SEQ ID GST tagged recombinant FL-

2553

1-737

NO .: 1 hDPP3

2554

3.777.985 0 1.733.815 0

35%
30%

2555 3.805.363 0

25%

1963 141.822 2.163.038

60%

1964 100.802 2.041.928 60%

SEQ ID

474-

CETVINPETGEQIQSWYRSGE

NO .: 2

493

1965 99.493 1966 118.097 1967 113.736

1.986.794 1.990.702 1.909.954

70% 65%
70%

1968 105.696 2.017.731

65%

1969 82.558 2.224.025

70%

Table 1: list of antibodies raised against full-length or sequences of hDPP3 and their ability to
bind hDPP3 (SEQ ID NO .: 1) or immunization peptide (SEQ ID NO .: 2) in RLU, as well as
the maximum inhibition of recombinant GST-hDPP3.

in

5
The development of a luminescence immunoassay for the quantification of DPP3 protein
concentrations (DPP3-LIA) as well as an enzyme capture activity assay for the quantification of DPP3 activity (DPP3-ECA) have been described recently (Rehfeld et al. 2018. JALM. in
press), which is incorporated here in its entirety by reference.

10

WO 2020/128039
92
Example 2 - DPP3 for prognosis of short-term mortality

PCT/EP2019/086791

DPP3 concentration in plasma of a variety of diseased patients was determined using a hDPP3 immuno assay and related to the short term-mortality of the patients.

Study Cohort - Sepsis and Septic Shock

5 Plasma samples form 574 patients from the Adrenomedullin and Outcome in Severe Sepsis and Septic Shock (AdrenOSS) study were screened for DPP3. AdrenOSS is a prospective, observational, multinational study including 583 patients admitted to the intensive care unit with sepsis or septic shock (Hollinger et al., 2018). 292 patients were diagnosed with septic shock.

10 Study Cohort - Cardiogenic Shock
Plasma samples from 108 patients that were diagnosed with cardiogenic shock were screened for DPP3. Blood was drawn within 6 h from detection of cardiogenic shock. Mortality was followed for 7 days.

Study Cohort - Acute Coronary Syndrome
15 Plasma samples from 720 patients with acute coronary syndrome were screened for DPP3. Blood was drawn 24 hours after the onset of ChestPain. Mortality was followed for 7 days.

Study Cohort - Dyspnea:
Plasma samples from1440 patients presenting with dyspnea (shortness of breath) were collected immediately to their entry to the emergency department of Skåne University 20 Hospital. Patients with dyspnea may suffer from acute coronary syndrome or congestive heart failure, beside others, and have a high risk for organ failure and short-term mortality. Mortality was followed for 3 months after presentation to the emergency department.

Study Cohort - Burned Patients:

Plasma samples from 107 patients with severe burns (more than 15% of total body surface 25 area) were screened for DPP3. Blood was drawn at admission to the hospital. Mortality was
followed for 4 weeks.

hDPP3 immunoassay:
An immune-Assay (LIA) or an activity assays (ECA) detecting the amount of human DPP3 (LIA) or the activity of human DPP3 (ECA), respectively, was used for determining the DPP3

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
93

level in patient plasma. Antibody immobilization, labelling and incubation were performed as

described in Rehfeld et al. (Rehfeld et al. 2018).

Results

Short-term patients' survival in Sepsis/Septic Schock was related to the DPP3 plasma 5 concentration at admission. Patients with DPP3 plasma concentration above 68.6 ng/ml (3.
Quartile) had an increased mortality risk compared to patients with DPP3 plasma concentrations below this threshold (Figure 1A). The same relation was visible when only the septic shock patients of this cohort were analyzed for their short-term outcome in relation to DPP3 plasma concentrations (Figure 1F). Patients with an elevated DPP3 plasma 10 concentration had an increased mortality risk compared to patients with a low DPP3 plasma concentration. When the same cut-off is applied to patients with cardiogenic shock, also an increased risk for short-term mortality within 7 days is observed in patients with high DPP3
(Figure 1B).
In addition, 28 day-survival of patients with acute coronary syndrome in relation to DPP3 is 15 also increased when DPP3 is high and the respective cut-off of 68.6 ng/ml is applied (Figure
1C).

Applying this cut-off of 68.6 ng/ml to patients that suffer from Dyspnea, a significant increased mortality risk for patients with high DPP3 is detected within a follow-up of 3
months (Figure 1D).
20 Furthermore, there was an increased risk for 4-week mortality in severely burned patients that have a high DPP3 concentration above the respective cut-off off 68.6 ng/ml (Figure 1E).

Example 3 - Purification of human native DPP3
Human erythrocyte lysate was applied on a total of 100 ml of Sepahrose 4B resin (Sigma25 Aldrich) and the flow through was collected. The resin was washed with a total of 370 mL
PBS buffer, pH 7.4 and the wash fraction was combined with the collected flow through, resulting in a total volume of 2370 mL.
For the immuno-affinity purification step, 110 mg of monoclonal anti-hDPP3 mAb AK2552 were coupled to 25.5 mL of UltraLink Hydrazide Resin (Thermo Fisher Scientific) according
30 to the manufacturer's protocol (GlycoLink Immobilization Kit, Thermo Fisher Scientific). The coupling efficiency was 98%, determined by quantification of uncoupled antibody via

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
94

Bradford-technique. The resin-antibody conjugate was equilibrated with 10 bed volumes of

wash-binding buffer (PBS, 0.1% TritonX-100, pH 7.4), combined with 2370 mL of cleared

red blood cell lysate and incubated at 4 under continuous stirring for 2h. Consequently,

100 mL of the incubation mixture was spread on ten 15 mL polypropylene columns and the

5 flow-through was collected by centrifugation at 1000xg for 30 seconds. This step was

repeated several times resulting in 2.5 mL of DPP3-loaded resin per column. Each column

was washed 5 times with 10 mL of wash-binding buffer using the gravity-glow approach.

DPP3 was eluted by placing each column in 15-mL falcon tube containing 2 mL of

neutralization buffer (1M Tris-HCI, pH 8.0), followed by addition of 10 mL of elution buffer

10 (100 mM Glycine-HC1, 0.1% TritonX-100, pH 3.5) per column and immediate centrifugation

for 30 seconds at 1000xg. The elution step was repeated 3 times in total resulting in 360 mL

of combined eluates. The pH of the neutralized eluates was 8.0.

The combined eluates were loaded on a 5 mL HiTrap Q-sephare HP column (GE Healthcare) equilibrated with IEX-buffer A1 (100 mM Glycine, 150 mM Tris, pH 8.0) using the sample
15 pump of the Äkta Start system (GE Healthcare). After sample loading, the column was washed with five column volumes of IEX Buffer A2 (12 mM NaH2PO4, pH 7.4) to remove unbound protein. Elution of DPP3 was achieved by applying a sodium chloride gradient over 10 column volumes (50 mL) in a range of 0-1 M NaCl using IEX-buffer B (12 mM NaH2PO4,1 M NaCl, pH 7.4). The eluates were collected in 2 mL fractions. Buffers used for
20 ion exchange chromatography were sterile filtered using a 0.22 uM bottle-top filter.

A purification table with the respective yields and activities of each purification step is given in table 2. Figure 2 shows an SDS-PAGE on a gradient gel (4-20%) of native hDPP3 purified from human erythrocyte lysate.

Table 2: Purification of DPP 3 from human erythrocytes

Step

DPP3

Total

Total

Yieldd) in Specific Purification

amount in protein in activity in %

activity in factorf)

% (LIA)ª) mgb)

jimol/min

U/mge)

(ECA)c)

Lysate 100

204160

55

100

0.00027

IAP

80.6

71.2

46.1

84

0.65

2407

IEX

75

6.6

38.7

70

5.9

21852

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
95

a) Relative DPP3 amount was determined in all fractions using the DPP3-LIA assay. Amount

of DPP3 in starting material was set to 100% and remaining DPP3 amount in purification

fractions was correlated to the starting material.

b) Total protein amount was determined using the method of Lowry modified by Peterson
5 (Peterson 1977. Analytical Biochemistry 356:346-356).

c) Total Arg2-BNA hydrolyzing activity in umol of substrate converted per minute was determined using the DPP3-ECA, calibrated via ß-naphtylamine (0,05-100 uM).

d) Purification yield was calculated form total Arg2-BNA hydrolyzing activity. Arg2-ßNA hydrolyzing activity in starting material was set to 100%.

10 e) Specific activity is defined as umol of substrate converted per minute and mg of total
protein.

f) The purification factor is the quotient of specific activities after and before each purification
step.

15 Example 4 - Effect of native DPP3 in an animal model
The effect of native hDPP3 injection in healthy mice was studied by monitoring the shortening fraction and renal resistive index.
Wild type Black 6 mice (8-12 weeks, group size refer to table 3) were acclimated during 2 weeks and a baseline echocardiography was done. The mice were randomly allocated to one 20 of the two groups and, subsequently, native DPP3 protein or PBS were injected intravenously via a retro-orbital injection with a dose of 600 µg/kg for DPP3 protein.

After DPP3 or PBS injection, cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography (Gao et al. 2011) and renal function assessed by renal resistive index (Lubas et al., 2014, Dewitte et al, 25 2012) at 15, 60 and 120 minutes (Figure 3).

Group

Number of Animals Treatment

WT +PBS

3

PBS

WT+DPP3

4

Native DPP3

Table 3: list of experiment groups

WO 2020/128039
Results

PCT/EP2019/086791
96

The mice treated with native DPP3 protein show significantly reduced shortening fraction compared to the the control group injected with PBS (Fig 4A). The WT+DPP3 group also displays worsening renal function as observed by the renal resistive index increase (Figure 5 4B).

Example 5 - Development of Procizumab
Antibodies raised against SEQ ID NO. 2 were characterized in more detail (epitope mapping, binding affinities, specificity, inhibitory potential). Here the results for clone 1967 of SEQ ID 10 NO .: 2 (AK1967; "Procizumab") are shown as an example.
Determination of AK1967 epitope on DPP3:
For epitope mapping of AK1967 a number of N- or C-terminally biotinylated peptides were synthesized (peptides&elephants GmbH, Hennigsdorf, Germany). These peptides include the sequence of the full immunization peptide (SEQ ID NO. 2) or fragments thereof, with 15 stepwise removal of one amino acid from either C- or N-terminus (see table 5 for a complete list of peptides).
High binding 96 well plates were coated with 2 µg Avidin per well (Greiner Bio-One international AG, Austria) in coupling buffer (500 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.8, 100 mM NaCl). Afterwards plates were washed and filled with specific solutions of biotinylated peptides 20 (10 ng/ well; buffer - 1xPBS with 0.5% BSA)
Anti-DPP3 antibody AK1967 was labelled with a chemiluminescence label according to Example 1.
The plates were filled with 200 ul of labeled and diluted detection antibody (tracer) and incubated for 4 h at room temperature. Unbound tracer was removed by washing 4 times with 25 350 ul washing solution (20 mM PBS, pH 7.4, 0.1 % Triton X-100). Well-bound chemiluminescence was measured by using the Centro LB 960 luminometer (Berthold Technologies Gmbh & Co. KG). Binding of AK1967 to the respective peptides is determined by evaluation of the relative light units (RLU). Any peptide that shows a significantly higher RLU signal than the unspecific binding of AK1967 is defined as AK1967 binder. The 30 combinatorial analysis of binding and non-binding peptides reveals the specific DPP3 epitope of AK1967.

WO 2020/128039 97
Determination of binding affinities using Octet:

PCT/EP2019/086791

The experiment was performed using Octet Red96 (ForteBio). AK1967 was captured on kinetic grade anti-humanFc (AHC) biosensors. The loaded biosensors were then dipped into a dilution series of recombinant GST-tagged human DPP3 (100, 33.3, 11.1, 3.7 nM). 5 Association was observed for 120 seconds followed by 180 seconds of dissociation. The buffers used for the experiment are depicted in table 4. Kinetic analysis was performed using a 1:1 binding model and global fitting.

Buffer

Composition

Assay Buffer

PBS with 0.1% BSA, 0.02% Tween-21

Regeneration
Buffer

10 mM Glycine buffer (pH 1.7)

Neutralization Buffer

PBS with 0.1% BSA, 0.02%
Tween-21

Table 4: Buffers used for Octet measurements

10 Western Blot analysis of Binding specificity of AK1967:
Blood cells from human EDTA-blood were washed (3x in PBS), diluted in PBS and lysed by
repeated freeze-thaw-cycles. The blood cell lysate had a total protein concentration of 250 µg/ml, and a DPP3 concentration of 10 µg/ml. Dilutions of blood cell lysate (1:40, 1:80, 1:160 and 1:320) and of purified recombinant human His-DPP3 (31.25-500 ng/ml) were 15 subjected to SDS-PAGE and Western Blot. The blots were incubated in 1.) blocking buffer (1xPBS-T with 5% skim milk powder), 2.) primary antibody solution (AK1967 1:2.000 in blocking buffer) and 3.) HRP labelled secondary antibody (goat anti mouse IgG, 1:1.000 in blocking buffer). Bound secondary antibody was detected using the Amersham ECL Western Blotting Detection Reagent and the Amersham Imager 600 UV (both from GE Healthcare).
20 DPP3 inhibition assay:
To analyze the capability of DPP3 inhibition by AK1967 a DPP3 activity assay with known procedure (Jones et al., 1982) was performed as described in example 1. The inhibitory ability AK1967 is defined as the decrease of GST-hDPP3 activity by incubation with said antibody

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791 98

in percent. The resulting lowered DPP3 activities are shown in an inhibition curve in Figure
1C.

Epitope mapping:

The analysis of peptides that AK1967 binds to and does not bind to revealed the DPP3 5 sequence INPETG (SEQ ID NO .: 3) as necessary epitope for AK1967 binding (see table 5).

peptide peptide sequence
ID

AK1967 binding

#1

bio afnfdq et vin pet g eqiq sw yrs g yes

#2

bio afnfdq etvinpetgeqiq

yes

#3

bio afnfdqetvinpetg e q i

yes

#4

bio afnfdqetvin petg e q

yes

#5

bio afn fdq e tv in pet ge

yes

#6 bio afnfdqetvinpetg

yes

#7

bio afn fdq et vin pet

no

#8

bio afnfdqetvinpe

no

#9

bio afn fdqetvinp

no

#10 bio afnfdqetvin

no

#11

et ge q iqs w y k bio

no

#12

petgeqiq sw y k bio

no

#13

npetgeqiqswy k bio

no

#14

inpetg e qiq sw y k bio

yes

#15

vinpetgeqiqswyk bio yes

#16

tvinpetgeqiqswyk bio

ves

#17

etvin petgeqiqswy k bio

yes

Table 5: Peptides used for Epitope mapping of AK1967

WO 2020/128039
Binding affinity:

PCT/EP2019/086791
99

AK1967 binds with an affinity of 2.2*10-9 M to recombinant GST-hDPP3 (kinetic curves see Figure 5).

Specificity and inhibitory potential:

5 The only protein detected with AK1967 as primary antibody in lysate of blood cells was DPP3 at 80 kDa (Figure 6). The total protein concentration of the lysate was 250 µg/ml whereas the estimated DPP3 concentration is about 10 µg/ml. Even though there is 25 times more unspecific protein in the lysate, AK1967 binds and detects specifically DPP3 and no other unspecific binding takes place.

10 AK1967 inhibits 15 ng/ ml DPP3 in a specific DPP3 activity assay with an IC50 of about 15 ng/ml (Figure 7).

Chimerization/ Humanization:

The monoclonal antibody AK1967 ("Procizumab"), with the ability of inhibiting DPP3 activity by 70 %, was chosen as possible therapeutic antibody and was also used as template
15 for chimerization and humanization.

Humanization of murine antibodies may be conducted according to the following procedure:

For humanization of an antibody of murine origin the antibody sequence is analyzed for the structural interaction of framework regions (FR) with the complementary determining regions (CDR) and the antigen. Based on structural modelling an appropriate FR of human origin is 20 selected and the murine CDR sequences are transplanted into the human FR. Variations in the amino acid sequence of the CDRs or FRs may be introduced to regain structural interactions, which were abolished by the species switch for the FR sequences. This recovery of structural interactions may be achieved by random approach using phage display libraries or via directed approach guided by molecular modeling (Almagro and Fransson, 2008.
25 Humanization of antibodies. Front Biosci. 13:1619-33).

With the above context, the variable region can be connected to any subclass of constant regions (IgG, IgM, IgE. IgA), or only scaffolds, Fab fragments, Fv, Fab and F(ab)2. In example 6 and 7 below, the murine antibody variant with an IgG2a backbone was used. For chimerization and humanization a human IgG1k backbone was used.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
100

For epitope binding only the Complementarity Determining Regions (CDRs) are of

importance. The CDRs for the heavy chain and the light chain of the murine anti-DPP3

antibody (AK1967; "Procizumab") are shown in SEQ ID NO. 6, SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID

NO. 8 for the heavy chain and SEQ ID NO. 9, sequence KVS and SEQ ID NO. 10 for the

5 light chain, respectively.

Sequencing of the anti-DPP3 antibody (AK1967; "Procizumab") revealed an antibody heavy chain variable region (H chain) according to SEQ ID NO .: 11 and an antibody light chain variable region (L chain) according to SEQ ID NO .: 12.

10 Example 6 - Effect of Procizumab in sepsis-induced heart failure
In this experiment, the effect of Procizumab injection in sepsis-induced heart failure rats (Rittirsch et al. 2009) was studied by monitoring the shortening fraction.
CLP model of septic shock:
Male Wistar rats (2-3 months, 300 to 400 g, group size refer to table 6) from the Centre 15 d'élevage Janvier (France) were allocated randomly to one of three groups. All the animals
were anesthetized using ketamine hydrochloride (90 mg/ kg) and xylazine (9 mg/ kg) intraperitoneally (i.p.). For induction of polymicrobial sepsis, cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) was performed using Rittirsch's protocol with minor modification. A ventral midline incision (1.5 cm) was made to allow exteriorization of the cecum. The cecum is then ligated 20 just below the ileocecal valve and punctured once with an 18-gauge needle. The abdominal cavity is then closed in two layers, followed by fluid resuscitation (3 ml/ 100 g body of weight of saline injected subcutaneously) and returning the animal to its cage. Sham animals were subjected to surgery, without getting their cecum punctured. CLP animals were randomized between placebo and therapeutic antibody.
25 Study design:
The study flow is depicted in Figure 8. After CLP or sham surgery the animals were allowed to rest for 20 hours with free access to water and food. Afterwards they were anesthetized, tracheotomy done and arterial and venous line laid. At 24 hours after CLP surgery either AK1967 or vehicle (saline) were administered with 5 mg/kg as a bolus injection followed by 30 a 3h infusion with 7.5 mg/kg. As a safety measure, hemodynamics were monitored invasively
and continuously from t = 0 till 3 h.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
101

At t=0 (baseline) all CLP animals are in septic shock and developed a decrease in heart

function (low blood pressure, low shortening fraction). At this time point Procizumab or

vehicle (PBS) were injected (i.v.) and saline infusion was started. There were 1 control group and 2 CLP groups which are summarized in the table below (table 6). At the end of the

5 experiment, the animals were euthanized, and organs harvested for subsequent analysis.

Group
Sham

Number of Animals CLP

7

No

Treatment
PBS

CLP-PBS

6

Yes

PBS

CLP-PCZ

4

Yes

PCZ

Table 6: list of experimental groups

Invasive Blood Pressure:

Hemodynamic variables were obtained using the AcqKnowledge system (BIOPAC Systems, 10 Inc., USA). It provides a fully automated blood pressure analysis system. The catheter is
connected to the BIOPAC system through a pressure sensor.
For the procedure, rats were anesthetized (ketamine and xylazine). Animals were moved to the heating pad for the desired body temperature to 37-37.5 . The temperature feedback probe was inserted into the rectum. The rats were placed on the operating table in a supine 15 position. The trachea was opened and a catheter (16G) was inserted for an external ventilator without to damage carotid arteries and vagus nerves. The arterial catheter was inserted into the right carotid artery. The carotid artery is separate from vagus before ligation.
A central venous catheter was inserted through the left jugular vein allowing administration of PCZ or PBS.

20 Following surgery, the animals were allowed to rest for the stable condition prior to hemodynamic measurements. Then baseline blood pressure (BP) were recorded. During the
data collection, saline infusion via arterial line was stopped.

Echocardiography:

Animals were anesthetized using ketamine hydrochloride. Chests were shaved and rats were 25 placed in decubitus position.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791 102

For transthoracic echocardiographic (TTE) examination a commercial GE Healthcare Vivid 7

Ultra-sound System equipped with a high frequency (14-MHz) linear probe and 10-MHz

cardiac probe was used. All examinations were recorded digitally and stored for subsequent

off-line analysis.

5 Grey scale images were recorded at a depth of 2 cm. Two-dimensional examinations were initiated in a parasternal long axis view to measure the aortic annulus diameter and the pulmonary artery diameter. M-mode was also employed to measure left ventricular (LV) dimensions and assess fractional shortening (FS%). LVFS was calculated as LV end-diastolic diameter - LV end-systolic diameter / LV end-diastolic diameter and expressed in %. The
10 time of end-diastole was therefore defined at the maximal diameter of the LV. Accordingly, end-systole was defined as the minimal diameter in the same heart cycle. All parameters were measured manually. Three heart cycles were averaged for each measurement.

From the same parasternal long axis view, pulmonary artery flow was recorded using pulsed wave Doppler. Velocity time integral of pulmonary artery outflow was measured.

15 From an apical five-chamber view, mitral flow was recorded using pulsed Doppler at the level of the tip of the mitral valves.

Results:

The sepsis-induced heart failure rats treated with PBS (CLP+PBS) show reduced shortening fraction compared to the sham animals (Fig. 9A). The CLP+PBS group also displays high 20 mortality rate (Fig. 9B). In contrast, application of Procizumab to sepsis-induced heart failure rats improves shortening fraction (Fig. 9A) and drastically reduces the mortality rate (Fig. 9B).

Example 7 - Effect of Procizumab on heart and kidney function
25 The effect of Procizumab in isoproterenol-induced heart failure in mice was studied by monitoring the shortening fraction and renal resistive index.
Isoproterenol-induced cardiac stress in mice:
Acute heart failure was induced in male mice at 3 months of age by two daily subcutaneous injections of 300 mg/kg of Isoproterenol, a non-selective ß-adrenergic agonist 30 (DL-Isoproterenol hydrochloride, Sigma Chemical Co) (ISO) for two days (Vergaro et al.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
103

2016). The ISO dilution was performed in NaCl 0.9%. Isoproterenol-treated mice were

randomly assigned to two groups (Table 7) and PBS or Procizumab (10 mg/kg) were injected

intravenously after baseline echocardiography (Gao et al., 2011) and renal resistive index

measurements (Lubas et al., 2014, Dewitte et al, 2012) were performed at day 3 (Figure 10 A

5 and B).

Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography (Gao et al., 2011) and by the renal resistive index (Lubas et al., 2014, Dewitte et al, 2012) at 1 hour, 6 hours and 24 hours (Figure 10 A and B). The group of mice that was injected with vehicle (PBS) instead of isoproterenol was subjected to no further pharmacological treatment and served as the control
10 group (Table 7).

Group

Number of Animals Treatment

Sham+PBS

27

PBS

HF+PBS

15

PBS

HF+PCZ

20

PCZ

Table 7: list of experimental groups

Results:
15 Application of Procizumab to isoproterenol-induced heart failure mice restores heart function within the first hour after administration (Fig. 11A). Kidney function of sick mice shows significant improvement at 6 hours post PCZ injection and is comparable to the kidney function of sham animals at 24 hours (Fig. 11B).

20 Example 8 - Effect of Valsartan
The effect of an antagonist for the type I angiotensin II receptor (ATR1), Valsartan, in healthy mice injected with DPP3 was studied by monitoring the shortening fraction.
In this experiment, healthy Black 6 mice (8-12 weeks, group size refer to table 8) consumed water with 50 mg/kg Valsartan per day or just water (Table 8) for a period of two weeks. 25 Subsequently, both groups received an intravenous injection of native DPP3 (600 µg/kg) and

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
104

the shortening fraction was assessed according to Gao et al., 2011 at 15, 60 and 120 minutes

(Figure 12).

Group

Number of Animals Treatment

WT+DPP3

4

Water + PBS / DPP3 injection

Val + DPP3

3

Water + Valsartan / DPP3 injection

Table 8: list of experiment groups

5
Results:
DPP3 injection to healthy mice lead to a significant decrease in the shortening fraction (Figure 13). In contrast, healthy mice treated with the angiotensin II receptor antagonist, Valsartan, and then submitted to DPP3 injection, showed no signs of heart dysfunction 10 assessed by the shortening fraction. Therefore, the cardiac function is restored by the Valsartan treatment and thus the DPP3-mediated heart dysfunction is angiotensin II mediated.
The animals that were treated with Valsartan for two weeks have been adapted to blocking of the type I angiotensin II receptor, to the subsequent inhibited angiotensin II-mediated signaling and the inhibited AngII-mediated activity of the heart function. Apparently, under
15 Valsartan treatment, the organism switched to other ways for activating cardiac function independent of type I angiotensin II receptor signaling, as this angiotensin signaling system has been inhibited by Valsartan.
When DPP3 cleaves Ang II and thus inhibits the angiotensin II-mediated activity of the heart function, those animals that are adapted to a down-regulated angiotensin-system (Valsartan 20 treated animals) showed no signs of heart dysfunction as assessed by the shortening fraction. In contrast thereto, animals that were not treated with the angiotensin II receptor antagonist Valsartan and were not adapted to an inihibited Ang II-medited signaling, showed a significant decrease in the shortening fraction in response to DPP3 injection and subsequent cleavage and inactivation of AngII
25 This experiment clearly shows the relationship between DPP3 and angiotensin II meaning that the DPP3-induced heart dysfunction is angiontensin II-mediated.

WO 2020/128039
105
Example 9 - DPP3 and organ dysfunction in sepsis

PCT/EP2019/086791

The same study as described in Example 2 (AdrenOSS-1) was used to assess the association between cDPP3, organ (e.g. cardiovascular and renal dysfunction) in patients admitted for
sepsis and septic shock. The Adrenoss-1 is an European prospective, observational, 5 multinational study (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02393781) including 583 patients admitted to the
ICU with sepsis or septic shock. The primary outcome (as described in example 2) was 28day mortality. Secondary outcomes included organ failure defined by SOFA score, organ support with focus on vasopressor use and need for renal replacement therapy. Blood for the central laboratory was sampled within 24 hours after ICU admission and on day 2.

10 Median cDPP3 measured at admission in all AdrenoSS-1 patients was 45.1 ng/ml (inter quartile range 27.5-68.6). High DPP3 levels measured at admission were associated with worse metabolic parameters, renal and cardiac function and SOFA score: patients with DPP3 levels below the median had a median SOFA score (points) of 6 (IQR 4-9) compared to a median SOFA score of 8 (IQR 5-11) for patients with DPP3 levels above the median of 45.1
15 ng/ml (Fig. 14)

Whatever levels of cDPP3 at admission, high concentrations of cDPP3 levels 24 hours later were associated with worst SOFA scores whether global Fig. 15 or by organ (Fig. 16 A-F).

In summary these data showed that high levels of cDPP3 were associated with survival and the extent of organ dysfunction in a large international cohort septic or septic shock patients. 20 The study found marked association between cDPP3 < 45.1 ng/ml at admission and shortterm survival as well as the prognostic cut-off value of 45.1 pg/ml in both sepsis and septic shock. Concerning organ dysfunction, there was a positive relationship between cDPP3 and SOFA score at ICU admission. More importantly, the relationship between cPDPP3 levels and extent of organ dysfunction, seen at ICU admission, was also true during the recovery 25 phase. Indeed, patients with high cDPP3 levels at admission who showed a decline towards normal cDPP3 values at day 2 were more likely to recover all organ function including
cardiovascular, kidney, lung, liver.

WO 2020/128039
SEQUENCES

PCT/EP2019/086791
106

SEQ ID No. 1 - hDPP3 aa 1-737
MADTQYILPNDIGVSSLDCREAFRLLSPTERLYAYHLSRAAWYGGLAVLLQTSPEAP 5 YIYALLSRLFRAQDPDQLRQHALAEGLTEEEYQAFLVYAAGVYSNMGNYKSFGDTK
FVPNLPKEKLERVILGSEAAQQHPEEVRGLWQTCGELMFSLEPRLRHLGLGKEGITTY FSGNCTMEDAKLAQDFLDSQNLSAYNTRLFKEVDGEGKPYYEVRLASVLGSEPSLDS
EVTSKLKSYEFRGSPFQVTRGDYAPILQKVVEQLEKAKAYAANSHQGQMLAQYIESF TQGSIEAHKRGSRFWIQDKGPIVESYIGFIESYRDPFGSRGEFEGFVAVVNKAMSAKFE 10 RLVASAEQLLKELPWPPTFEKDKFLTPDFTSLDVLTFAGSGIPAGINIPNYDDLRQTEG FKNVSLGNVLAVAYATQREKLTFLEEDDKDLYILWKGPSFDVQVGLHELLGHGSGK LFVQDEKGAFNFDQETVINPETGEQIQSWYRSGETWDSKFSTIASSYEECRAESVGLY LCLHPQVLEIFGFEGADAEDVIYVNWLNMVRAGLLALEFYTPEAFNWRQAHMQARF VILRVLLEAGEGLVTITPTTGSDGRPDARVRLDRSKIRSVGKPALERFLRRLQVLKSTG 15 DVAGGRALYEGYATVTDAPPECFLTLRDTVLLRKESRKLIVQPNTRLEGSDVQLLEY EASAAGLIRSFSERFPEDGPELEEILTQLATADARFWKGPSEAPSGQA

SEQ ID No. 2 - hDPP3 aa 474-493 (N-Cys) - immunization peptide with additional N-
terminal Cystein
20 CETVINPETGEQIQSWYRSGE

SEQ ID No. 3 - hDPP3 aa 477-482 - epitope of AK1967
INPETG

25 SEQ ID No. 4 - variable region of murine AK1967 in heavy chain
QVTLKESGPGILQPSQTLSLTCSFSGFSLSTSGMSVGWIRQPSGKGLEWLAHIWWNDN KSYNPALKSRLTISRDTSNNQVFLKIASVVTADTGTYFCARNYSYDYWGQGTTLTVS
S

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
107

SEQ ID No. 5 - variable region of murine AK1967 in light chain DVVVTQTPLSLSVSLGDPASISCRSSRSLVHSIGSTYLHWYLQKPGQSPKLLIYKVSNR
FSGVPDRFSGSGSGTDFTLKISRVEAEDLGVYFCSQSTHVPWTFGGGTKLEIK
5
SEQ ID No. 6- CDR1 of murine AK1967 in heavy chain GFSLSTSGMS

SEQ ID No. 7- CDR2 of murine AK1967 in heavy chain
10 IWWNDNK
SEQ ID No. 8 - CDR 3 of murine AK1967 in heavy chain ARNYSYDY

15 SEQ ID No. 9 - CDR1 of murine AK1967 in light chain RSLVHSIGSTY

CDR2 of murine AK1967 in light chain
KVS
20
SEQ ID No. 10 - CDR3 of murine AK1967 in light chain
SQSTHVPWT

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
108

SEQ ID No. 11 - humanized AK1967 - heavy chain sequence (IgGlk backbone)

MDPKGSLSWRILLFLSLAFELSYGQITLKESGPTLVKPTQTLTLTCTFSGFSLSTSGMS VGWIRQPPGKALEWLAHIWWNDNKSYNPALKSRLTITRDTSKNQVVLTMTNMDPV DTGTYYCARNYSYDYWGQGTLVTVSSASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVK 5 DYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHK PSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVV VDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKE YKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDI AVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALH 10 NHYTQKSLSLSPG

SEQ ID No. 12 - humanized AK1967 - light chain sequence (IgGlk backbone)
METDTLLLWVLLLWVPGSTGDIVMTQTPLSLSVTPGQPASISCKSSRSLVHSIGSTYLY WYLQKPGQSPQLLIYKVSNRFSGVPDRFSGSGSGTDFTLKISRVEAEDVGVYYCSQST 15 HVPWTFGGGTKVEIKRTVAAPSVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWK VDNALQSGNSQESVTEQDSKDSTYSLSSTLTLSKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLSSPVT KSFNRGEC

SEQ ID No. 13 - Angiotensin II (synonyme: 5-isoleucine-angiotensin II)
20 DRVYIHPF
SEQ ID No. 14 - Angiotensin II analogue (5-valine-angiotensin II)
DRVYVHPF

25 SEQ ID No. 15 - Angiotensin II analogue (Asn1-Phe4)
NRVFIHPF

WO 2020/128039 109
SEQ ID No. 16 - Angiotensin II hexapeptide
VYIHPF

PCT/EP2019/086791

SEQ ID No. 17 - Angiotensin II nonapeptide
5 NRVYYVHPF
SEQ ID No. 18 - Angiotensin II analogue ([Asn1-Ile5-Ile8]-angiotensin II)
NRVYIHPI

10 SEQ ID No. 19 - Angiotensin II analogue ([Asn1-Ile5-Ala8]-angiotensin II)
NRVYIHPA
SEQ ID No. 20 - Angiotensin II analogue ([Asn1-diiodoTyr4-Ile5]-angiotensin II
NRVYIHPF
15
SEQ ID No. 21 - Angiotensin III
RVYIHPF

SEQ ID No. 22 - Angiotensin III analogue (Val4-angiotensin III)
20 RVYVHPF
SEQ ID No. 23 - Angiotensin III analogue (Phe3-angiotensin III)
RVFIHPF

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
110

SEQ ID No. 24 - Angiotensin III analogue ([Ile4-Ala7]-angiotensin III)

RVYIHPA

SEQ ID No. 25 - Angiotensin III analogue (diiodoTyr3-Ile4]-angiotensin III)
5 RVYIHPF

SEQ ID No. 26 - Angiotensin IV
VYIHPF

10 SEQ ID No. 27 - Angiotensin IV analogue (Val3-angiotensin IV) VYVHPF

SEQ ID No. 28 - Angiotensin IV analogue (Phe2-angiotensin IV)
VFIHPF
15
SEQ ID No. 29 - Angiotensin IV analogue ([Ile3-Ala6]-angiotensin IV)
VYIHPA

SEQ ID No. 30 - Angiotensin IV analogue ([diiodoTyr2-Ile3-angiotensin IV) 20 VYIHPF

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
111

CLAIMS

1. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject,

5 wherein said disease is selected from the group comprising heart failure, chronic heart

failure, acute heart failure (AHF), myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, liver failure, burn

injuries, traumatic injuries, severe infection (microbial, viral (e.g. AIDS), parasitic diseases

(e.g. Malaria)), SIRS or sepsis, cancer, acute kidney injury (AKI), CNS disorders (e.g.

seizures, neurodegenerative diseases), autoimmune diseases, vascular diseases,

10

hypotension, and shock and

· wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of

bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold.

2. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

15

disease in a subject according to claim 1, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist

and/or a precursor thereof is selected from the group comprising Angiotensin I,

Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in particular Angiotensin II.

3. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

20

disease in a subject according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or

said DPP3 activity has been determined in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least

once before and/or during the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a

precursor thereof.

25 4. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a
disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein determination of the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is used as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof.
30
5. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 4, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
112

6. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein said Angiotensin-ReceptorAgonist and/ or a precursor thereof is administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical
formulation.

5
7. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to claim 6, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II acetate and said pharmaceutical formulation is in a dried state to be reconstituted before use.

10
8. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-

Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate between

0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between 2

15

and 80 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more preferred

between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 15 and

40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a rate of 20 ng/kg/min

9. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

20

disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-

Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, in particular Angiotensin II, is administered in

combination with an inhibitor of DPP3.

10. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

25

disease in a subject according to claim 9, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is selected from

the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3

non-Ig scaffold.

11. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

30

disease in a subject according to any of claims 9 to 10, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is

an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold that

binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to SEQ ID NO. 2.

12. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

35

disease in a subject according to any of claims 9 to 11, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
113

an antibody or fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than 10-7 M.

13. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

5

disease in a subject according to any of claims 9 to 12, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is

an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific.

14. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of claims 9 to 13, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is

10

an antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to full-length DPP3 and inhibits activity of DPP3

of at least 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred more

than 70 %, even more preferred more than 80 %, even more preferred more than

90 %, even more preferred more than 95 %.

15 15. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 14, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:
20 · Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or
· quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.
25 16. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 15, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:
30 · Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3, . quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a
substrate of DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
114

17. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 16, wherein the amount of DPP3

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

5

wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody,

antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

18. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

10

disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 17, wherein the amount of DPP3

protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to

full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

15 19. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 18, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and
wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to
full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.
20
20. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject according to any of claims 16 to 19, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that
25 are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

21. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of claims 16 to 20, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion

30

is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic

substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates,

luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay),

mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion

chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
115

electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot

(cleavage products).

22. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

in

5

disease in a subject according to any of claims 16 to 21, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin,

Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin,
ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or

10

aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

23. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of claims 16 to 22, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

15

selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore

or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

24. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity in a sample of a bodily fluid of said subject as therapy guidance and/or

20

therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor

thereof.

25. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

25

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according to claim 24, wherein

said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is selected from the group

comprising Angiotensin I, Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and Angiotensin IV, in

particular Angiotensin II.

30 26. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according to claim 24 or 25,
wherein said amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity has been determined in a

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
116

sample of bodily fluid of said subject at least once before and/or during the treatment with

said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

27. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

5

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 24 to

26, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood

plasma and blood serum.

10 28. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3protein and/or
DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 24 to
27, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:
15
· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by
measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or 20 . quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.
29. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 24 to
25 28, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said
subject comprises the steps:
. Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,
· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, 30 · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,
· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
117

30. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to

29, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

5

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-

binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be

selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

31. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

10

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to

30, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-

binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an

15

antibody.

32. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or

DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to

20

31, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily

fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-

binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is

immobilized on a surface.

25 33. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to 32, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that
30 removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

34. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
118

Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to

33, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and

wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the group

comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC),

5

color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to

aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC

(reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer

chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity

staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

10
35. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to
34, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and 15 wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and
IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

20 36. The use of a method or assay or kit for determining the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
DPP3 activity as therapy guidance and/or therapy monitoring for a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof according any of claims 28 to
35, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to 25 a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

37. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 23, wherein said treatment with an

30

angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may be discontinued when the

patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid

that is below a predetermined threshold level.

38. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof for use in the treatment of a

35

disease in a subject according to any of claims 1 to 23 and 37, wherein said treatment with

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
119

an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may startet once the patient has

an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a

predetermined threshold level.

5
39. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject, wherein said

method is comprising the steps:

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

10

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject,

wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

of said adverse events.

40. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to

15

claim 39, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood,

blood plasma and blood serum.

41. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to claim 39 and 40, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined
20 in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder, · adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by 25 measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or · quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

42. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to claims 39-41, wherein the method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample

30

of said subject comprises the steps:

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3, · separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
120

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

· quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

substrate of DPP3.

5 43. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to claims 39-42, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

10

44. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to

claims 37-41, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a

bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a

capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an

15

antibody.

45. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to claims 39-44, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a
20 capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is
immobilized on a surface.

46. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to

claims 39-45, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a

25

bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said separation step is a washing step that

removes ingredients of the sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the

captured DPP3.

47. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to

30

claims 39-46, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said

subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion is detected by a method selected from the

group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-ßNA, Arg-Arg-

AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to

aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay), mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
121

(reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion chromatography), thin layer

chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel electrophoresis followed by activity

staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot (cleavage products).

5 48. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to claims 39-47, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ßcasomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a
10 fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

49. A method for prognosing the risk of an adverse event in said subject according to

claims 39-48, wherein the DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said

subject and wherein said substrate may be selected from the group comprising: A di-

15

peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide

is Arg-Arg.

50 A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject, wherein said method is comprising the steps:

20

· determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

· comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

· correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject,

wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

of said organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function.

25

51. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject according to claim 50, wherein said sample of bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

30 52. £ A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject according to claim 50 and 51, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and comprises
the steps:

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
122

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3 and quantifying said DPP3 activity by

measuring and quantifying the conversion of a substrate of DPP3 or

5 . quantifying the amount of said DPP3 protein.

53. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject according to claims 50-52, wherein the method for determining

DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid sample of said subject comprises the steps:

10

· Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-length DPP3,

· separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder,

· adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

. quantifying of said DPP3 activity by measuring and quantifying the conversion of a

15

substrate of DPP3.

54. £ A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject according to claims 50-53, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein

and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein

20

said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-

length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder may be selected from the group of antibody,

antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

55. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

25

function in said subject according to claims 50-54, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein

and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein

said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to full-

length DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is an antibody.

30 56. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ function in said subject according to claims 50-55, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said determination comprises the use of a capture-binder that binds specifically to fulllength DPP3 wherein said capture-binder is immobilized on a surface.

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
123

57. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject according to claims 50-56, wherein the amount of DPP3 protein

and/or DPP3 activity is determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein

5

said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the sample that are not

bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3.

58. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject according to claims 50-57, wherein the DPP3 activity is

10

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein DPP3 substrate conversion

is detected by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic

substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates, luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTMM Assay),

mass spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion

15

chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel

electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot

(cleavage products).

59. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

20

function in said subject according to claims 50-58, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

selected from the group comprising: angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-enkephalin, Met-

enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, ß-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore or aminoluciferin

25

wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

60. A method for prognosing the risk of an organ dysfunction or worsening of organ

function in said subject according to claims 50-59, wherein the DPP3 activity is

determined in a bodily fluid sample of said subject and wherein said substrate may be

30

selected from the group comprising: A di-peptide coupled to a fluorophore, a chromophore

or aminoluciferin wherein the di-peptide is Arg-Arg.

WO 2020/128039

1/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

FIGURES

Figure 1:

Proportion of patients surviving

Proportion of patients surviving

A
100%

Mortality in Septis Low DPP3

90%

80% 70%

High DPP3

B Mortality in Cardiogenic Shock
100%-

90% 80%-

Low DPP3

70%60%-

&

High DPP3

60%
01 2 3 4 5 6 7 Time [days]
C Mortality in Acute Coronary Syndrome
100% Low DPP3
1
High DPP3

50%-

01 2

4 56 7

Time [days]

D

Mortality in Dyspnea

100%

Low DPP3
90%

80%

High DPP3

w-
N

Proportion of patients surviving

Proportion of patients surviving

90%
0 12345 6 7
Time [days]
E
Mortality in Burned Patients

Proportion of patients surviving

100% 90% 80%

Low DPP3

70% 60%

High DPP3

50%

0

1

2

3

4

Time [weeks]

70%
0

1

2

3

Time [months]

WO 2020/128039
Figure 2:

100 kDa 70 kDa -
15 kDa-

IFPFInTnTeppaIAukuotftnIfloAionEnfnixftyEicEnhxpixtacuycnhrhgpaiafneunigcrgieaeftiicoantion

2/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

WO 2020/128039

3/14

Figure 3:

DPP3

PCT/EP2019/086791

Sham

Time

0 15 60 120 (min)

Echo
heart and kidney

×

shortening fraction [%]
renal resistive index

Figure 4:
A
DPP3 injection
70-

...

65-

-

6

5

T

50

45-
pre 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120
time [min]

WT+PBS WT+DPP3

B
0.8

DPP3 injection

0.7-

0.6-
-

@ 0.5-

-·· WT+PBS
-@- WT+DPP3

-
8
.

0.4 pre 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120
time [min]

PCT/EP2019/086791
4/14

WO 2020/128039

WO 2020/128039
Figure 5:
[
0.4

5/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

nm

0.2

0

0

50

100

150

200

250

Time (sec)

100 = 33.3 = 11.1 = 3.7

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791 6/14

Figure 6:

dilutions of blood cell
lysate [250 µg/ml]

250 -

1:40 1:80 1:160 1:320

150

100 =
75

recombinant hDPP3 [ng/ml]

500 250 125

62.5

31,25

50

37 -

-

25 -
20 -

15 =

-

10 -

WO 2020/128039

7/14

Figure 7:
100-

PCT/EP2019/086791

Relative DPP3 activity [%]
(c = 15 ng/ml)

IC50

14.57 ng/ml

0-

0.01

1

100 10000

cAK1967 [ng/ml]

WO 2020/128039

8/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

Figure 8:

CLP
or
Sham

PCZ or PBS

0
Echo heart

...

24 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3

Time
(hours)

WO 2020/128039

PCT/EP2019/086791
9/14

Figure 9:
A
60-

...
PBS or PCZ injection + infusion

shortening fraction [%]

55

50-

45.

T

40-

-
P

35
pre 30
B
100

1
60 90 120 150 180
time [min]

80-

60 40-

L

20-

-

CLP+PCZ CLP+PBS
CLP+PCZ · CLP+PBS

Percent survival

pre 30

60 90 120 150 180
time [min]

WO 2020/128039

10/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

Figure 10:
A

PBS

Sham

Time

Pre D3 +1h +6h +24h

Echo
heart and kidney

B

PBS or PCZ

ISO

HF

Time

Pre D3! +1h +6h +24h

Echo
heart and kidney

shortening fraction [%] renal resistive index

Figure 11:

A
70-
60-

PBS or PCZ injection

50-
-
40-

pre D3 +1h +6h
time

SHAM+PBS HF+PCZ -·· HF+PBS
+24h

B
0.9-

PBS or PCZ injection

0.8-

0.7-

0.6-

0.5.

0.4pre D3

+1h +6h time

HF+PBS
HF+PCZ
..... SHAM+PBS
+24h

11/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

WO 2020/128039

WO 2020/128039

12/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

Figure 12:

DPP3

Val or Sham
0 15 60 120
Echo heart

Time
(min)

Figure 13:

shortening fraction [%]

70- DPP3 injection

65

H+H

-·· WT+VAL+DPP3

60

WT+DPP3

55.

50

45-
pre 15 30 45 60 75 90 105 120
time [min]

WO 2020/128039

13/14

PCT/EP2019/086791

Fig. 14

10000 1

0

-

0

8

8

1

o

000

1

8

o
.

-

10 31.6 100 316.2 1000

DPPIII.LIA.d1 [ng/ml, log10]

1

-

.

0

(0.6] (n=217)

(6,9] (n=142)

(9,12] (n=93)

(12.14] (n=32)

(14,20) (n=17)

% worsening SOFA score

Fig. 15
60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10%
0%

SOFA score

HH

HL

LH

LL

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

WO 2020/128039

Fig. 16

A

% worsening SOFA score

cardiac SOFA score

40%

35% 30%
25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

HH

HL

LH

LL

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

C

% worsening SOFA score 7 ... 4.

respiratory SOFA score

50% 45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10%
5% 0%

HH

HL

LH

LL

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

14/14
B
D

% worsening SOFA score

% worsening SOFA score

PCT/EP2019/086791

renal SOFA score

40%

35%

30%

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

HH

HL

LH

LL

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

liver SOFA score

45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15%
10% 5% 0%

HH

HI

LH

LL

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

E

% worsening SOFA score

coagulation SOFA score
60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

HH

HL

LH

LL

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

% worsening SOFA score

F
35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0%

CNS SOFA score

HH

HL

LH

24 h change in DPPIII (cut off 68.6 ng/ml)

77

