T75093WO  l  BOEHMERT & BOEHMERT

Therapy Guidance and/or Therapy Monitoring for treatment of shock

       The present invention is directed to a method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock
       in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, and vasopressors,
       angiotensin-receptor agonists and/or precursors thereof, inhibitors of DPP3 and anti-ADM
       antibodies for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, and methods of treating said shock or refractory shock.

        STATE OF THE ART

       Dipeptidyl peptidase 3 -- also known as Dipeptidyl aminopeptidase III, Dipeptidyl
10 arylamidase III, Dipeptidyl peptidase III, Enkephalinase B or red cell angiotensinase, short

       name: DPP3, DPPIII -- is a metallopeptidase that removes dipeptides from physiologically
       active peptides, such as enkephalins and angiotensins.

       DPP3 was first identified and its activity measured in extracts of purified bovine anterior
       pituitary by Ellis & Nuenke 1967. The enzyme, which is listed as EC 34144, has a
15 molecular mass of about 83 kDa and is highly conserved in procaryotes and eucaryotes
        (Praiapali & Chauhcm 2011). The amino acid sequence of the human variant is depicted in
       SEQ ID NO 1. Dipeptidyl peptidase III is a mainly cytosolic peptidase which is ubiquitously
       expressed. Despite lacking a signal sequence, a few studies reported membranous activity
       (Lee & Snyder 1982).

20 DPP3 is a zinc-depending exo-peptidase belonging to the peptidase family M49. It has a
       broad substrate specificity for oligopeptides from three/ four to ten amino acids of various
       compositions and is also capable of cleaving after proline. DPP3 is known to hydrolyze
       dipeptides from the N--terminus of its substrates, including angiotensin II, III and IV, Leu-- and
       Met-enkephalin, endomorphin l and 2. The metallopeptidase DPP3 has its activity optimum

25 at pH 8.0-9.0 and can be activated by addition of divalent metal ions, such as Co2+ and Mg2+.

       Structural analysis of DPP3 revealed the catalytic motifs HELLGH (hDPP3 450-455) and
       EECRAE (hDPP3 507-5 12), as well as following amino acids, that are important for sub strate
       binding and hydrolysis: Glu3l6, Tyr, 318, Asp366, Asn39l, Asn394, His568, Arg572,
       Arg577, Lys666 and Arg669 (Praiapali & Chauhcm 201]; Kumar el al. 2016; numbering
30 refers to the sequence of human DPP3, see SEQ ID NO. 1). Considering all known amino
       acids or sequence regions that are involved in substrate binding and hydrolysis, the active site
        of human DPP3 can be defined as the area between amino acids 3 l6 and 669.
       The most prominent substrate of DPP3 is angiotensin II (Ang II), the main effector of the
       renin--angiotensin system (RAS). The RAS is activated in cardiovascular diseases (Dostal el
       al. 1997. J M01 Cell Cardiol;29.`28937902; Roks el al. 1997. Heart Vessels. Suppl 1231197
       E), sepsis, and septic shock (Corréa el al. 2015. Crit Care 2015;19:98). Ang II, in particular,
       has been shown to modulate many cardiovascular functions including the control of blood
       pressure and cardiac remodeling.

       The exact biological function of DPP3 in cellular physiology is not understood, but recent
       findings indicate its role not only in in protein metabolism but also in pain modulation and
       inflammatory processes (Praiapati & Chauhcm 2011). In addition, DPP3 reduced blood
10 pressure in AngII-infused hypertensive mice, without changing heart rate (Pang el al. 2016).
       However normotensive mice had no alteration in blood pressure, when DPP3 was injected.

       Blood pressure reduction by administration of DPP3 together with an angiotensin-receptor
       antagonist in Ang II--infused mice was similar to that of DPP3 inj ection alone or angiotensin-
       receptor antagonist alone (Pang er a1. 2016. Hypertension 683630741).

15 Angiotensin II (AngII) is a peptide hormone naturally produced by the body that regulates
       blood pressure Via vasoconstriction and sodium reabsorption. The hemodynamic effects of
       Ang II administration have been the subject of numerous clinical studies, demonstrating
       significant effects on systemic and renal blood flow (Harrison-Bernard 2009. Adv. Physio]

     Edu. 33542: 270).

20 AngII-treatment is currently discussed for its beneficial effect in vasodilatory shock and septic
        shock (Khanna, A. el al., 2017; Anlonucci, E. el al. 2017, Tumlin, J.A. el al. 2018). Patients
       with vasodilatory shock (80% in septic shock) treated with angiotensin II were more likely to
       survive to 28 days and showed a significant correction of hypotension (Khanna A. er a1.
       2017; Tumlin, J.A. el al. 2018).

25 It is assumed that the Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) is highly dysregulated in shock
       patients leading to an altered angiotensin I/II ratio) and that angiotensin II infusion may
       compensate for such dysregulation (Tumlin J.A. er a1. 2018).

       Recently, two assays were generated, characterized, and validated to specifically detect DPP3
       in human bodily fluids (e.g., blood, plasma, serum): a luminescence immunoassay (LIA) to
30 detect DPP3 protein concentration and an enzyme capture activity assay (ECA) to detect
       specific DPP3 activity (Rehfeld el al. 2019 JALM 3(6).'943-953). A washing step in both
       methods removes all interfering substances before the actual detection of DPP3 protein or
    activity is performed. Both methods are highly specific and allow the reproducible detection
    of DPP3 in blood samples.

    The object of the present invention is the provision of a method for predicting or diagnosing a
    refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock.

    Another object of the invention is a provision of Vasopressors, angiotensin-receptor agonists
    and/or precursors thereof, inhibitors of DPP3 and anti-ADM antibodies for use in therapy of
    shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock.

       Subject of the present invention is a method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in
       a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said method is
10 comprising the steps:

       0  determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;
       0  comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,
          wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as having
15        refractory shock if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined
          threshold.

    Subject of the present invention is a method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in
    a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said method is
    comprising the steps:

20

    0     determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject, and

    o     comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold, and

    o     determining the level of pro-adrenomedullin of fragments thereof in a sample of

    bodily fluid of said subject, and

25 o      comparing said level of determined pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof to a

    predetermined threshold,

    wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as having

    refractory shock if said determined level of pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof and/or

    said level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

30

       In a specific embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said shock is selected from the
    group comprising shock due to hypovolemia, cardiogenic shock, obstructive shock and
    distributive shock.

    In another specific embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory
    shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said shock is
    selected from the group comprising shock due to hypovolemia, cardiogenic shock, ob structive
    shock and distributive shock, in particular cardiogenic or septic shock.

       In a specific embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
10 subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said shock is selected from the

       group comprising:

    0 in case of cardiogenic shock said subject has suffered an acute coronary syndrome

    (e.g. acute myocardial infarction) or has heart failure (e.g. acute decompensated heart

15  failure), myocarditis, arrhythmia, cardiomypathy, valcular heart disease, aortic

    dissection with acute aortic stenosis, traumatic chordal rupture or massive pulmonary

    embolism, or

    o in case of hypovolemic shock said subject may have suffered a hemorrhagic disease

    including gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured abdominal

20  aortic aneurysm, tumor eroding into a major blood vessel) and spontaneous bleeding

    in the setting of anticoagulant use or a non-hemorrhagic disease including vomiting,

    diarrhea, renal loss, skin losses/insensible losses (e.g. burns, heat stroke) or third-space

    loss in the setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal obstruction, trauma, or

    o in case of obstructive shock said patient may have suffered a cardiac tamponade,

25  tension pneumothoraX, pulmonary embolism or aortic stenosis, or

    o in case of distributive shock said patient has septic shock, neurogenic shock,

    anaphylactic shock or shock due to adrenal crisis.

       In another embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
30 subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said method is used for

       initiation and/or termination and/ or stratification and/or guidance of treatment.
       As used herein, the term "therapy guidance" or "guidance of treatment" refers to application
       of certain therapies or medical interventions based on the value of one or more biomarkers
       and/or clinical parameter and/or clinical scores.

       The term "therapy monitoring" in the context of the present invention refers to the monitoring
       and/or adjustment of a therapeutic treatment of said patient, for example by obtaining
       feedback on the efficacy of the therapy.

       The term "therapy stratification" in particular relates to grouping or classifying patients into
10 different groups, such as therapy groups that receive or do not receive therapeutic measures

       depending on their classification.

       The term "prediction" means correlating a probability of an outcome with a result obtained in
       the measurement of an analyte. An example of this is the measurement of a certain marker,
15 such as DPP3, in a sample, the measured level of which is correlated with the probability of a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, to develop a refractory shock.

       The present invention also comprises a method for short-term prediction of a refractory shock
       in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, whereby short-term means
20 a period of equal or less than 14 days, preferably equal or less than 7 days, more preferred
       equal or less than 3 days, most preferred equal or less than 48 hours.

       In another embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said treatment is initiated
25 and/or maintained and/or withheld and/or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is
       above said predetermined threshold.

       In another embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said treatment is initiated
30 and/or maintained and/or withheld and/or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 and/ or
       pro-adrenomedullin and/ or fragments thereof is above said predetermined threshold.

       In a preferred embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said treatment is selected from
       the group of vasopressors, angiotensin receptor agonists or precursors thereof, and/or
       inhibitors of the DPP3 activity.

       In another preferred embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory
       shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said treatment is
       selected from the group of vasopressors, Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors
       thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3 activity and anti-adrenomedullin antibodies or anti-
       adrenomedullin antibody fragments.

10 In another embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock either the level of DPP3 protein
       and/or the level of active DPP3 is determined and compared to a predetermined threshold.

       In another embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
15 subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock the level of DPP3 is

       determined by contacting said sample of bodily fluid with a capture binder that binds
       specifically to DPP3.

       In another preferred embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory
20 shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said capture binder

       for determining the level of DPP3 may be selected from the group of antibody, antibody
       fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

       In a specific embodiment of said method method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory
25 shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said capture binder

       is an antibody.

       In another specific embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory
       shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said capture binder
30 is a monoclonal antibody.

       In another embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said sample of bodily fluid is
       selected from the group of whole blood, plasma, and serum.
       In a specific embodiment of said method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, said method of diagnosing or
       predicting is conducted at least twice.

       Shock is characterized by decreased oxygen delivery and/or increased oxygen consumption or
       inadequate oxygen utilization leading to cellular and tissue hypoxia. It is a life-threatening
       condition of circulatory failure and most commonly manifested as hypotension (systolic blood
       pressure less than 90 mm Hg or MAP less than 65 mmHg). Shock is divided into four main
10 types based on the underlying cause: hypovolemic, cardiogenic, obstructive, and distributive
        shock (Vincent and De Backer 2014. N. Engl. J. Med. 3 70(6): 583).

       Hypovolemic shock is characterized by decreased intravascular volume and can be divided
       into two broad subtypes: hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic. Common causes of hemorrhagic
       hypovolemic shock include gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured
15 abdominal aortic aneurysm, tumor eroding into a major blood vessel) and spontaneous
       bleeding in the setting of anticoagulant use. Common causes of nonhemorrhagic hypovolemic
       shock include vomiting, diarrhea, renal loss, skin losses/insensible losses (e.g. burns, heat
       stroke) or third-space loss in the setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal obstruction,
       trauma. For review see Koya and Paul 2018. Shock. SZaZPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island
20 (FL) .' SZaZPearls Publishing; 2019-2018 Oct 2 7.

       Cardiogenic shock (CS) is defined as a state of critical endorgan hypoperfusion due to
       reduced cardiac output. Notably, CS forms a spectrum that ranges from mild hypoperfusion to
       profound shock. Established criteria for the diagnosis of CS are: (i) systolic blood pressure,
       390 mmHg for >30 min or vasopressors required to achieve a blood pressure 290 mmHg; (ii)
25 pulmonary congestion or elevated 1eft-ventricu1ar filling pressures; (iii) signs of impaired
       organ perfusion with at least one of the following criteria: (a) altered mental status; (b) cold,
       clammy skin; (c) oliguria (< 0.5 mL/kg/h or <30 mL/h); ((1) increased serum-lactate (Reynolds
       and Hochman 2008. Circulation 117: 6867697). Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) With
       subsequent ventricular dysfunction is the most frequent cause of CS accounting for
30 approximately 80% of cases. Mechanical complications such as ventricular septal (4%) or free
       wall rupture (2%), and acute severe mitral regurgitation (7%) are less frequent causes of CS
        after AMI. (Hochmcm el al. 2000. J Am Coll Cardiol 36: 106371070). Non-AMI-related CS
       may be caused by decompensated valvular heart disease, acute myocarditis, arrhythmias, etc.
       with heterogeneous treatment options. This translates in 40 000 to 50 000 patients per year in
       the USA and 60 000 to 70 000 in Europe. Despite advances in treatment mainly by early
       revascularization with subsequent mortality reduction, CS remains the leading cause of death
       in AMI with mortality rates still approaching 40--50% according to recent registries and
       randomized trials (Goldberg el al. 2009. Circulation [19: 121171219).

       Obstructive shock is due to a physical obstruction of the great vessels or the heart itself.
       Several conditions can result in this form of shock (e.g. cardiac tamponade, tension
       pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism, aortic stenosis). For review see Koya and Paul 2018.
       Shock. SZaZPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): SZalPearls Publishing; 2019-2018 Oct 27.

       According to the cause, there are four types of distributive shock: neurogenic shock
10 (decreased sympathetic stimulation leading to decreased vasal tone), anaphylactic shock,

       septic shock and shock due to adrenal crisis. In addition to sepsis, distributive shock can be
       caused by systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) due to conditions other than
       infection such as pancreatitis, burns or trauma. Other causes include, toxic shock syndrome
       (TSS), anaphylaXis (a sudden, severe allergic reaction), adrenal insufficiency (acute
15 worsening of chronic adrenal insufficiency, destruction or removal of the adrenal glands,
       suppression of adrenal gland function due to exogenous steroids, hypopituitarism and
       metabolic failure of hormone production), reactions to drugs or toxins, heavy metal
       poisoning, hepatic (liver) insufficiency and damage to the central nervous system. For review
       see Koya and Paul 2018. Shock. SZaZPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): SZaZPearls
20 Publishing; 2019-2018 Oct 2 7.

       In general, refractory shock has been defined as requirement of noradrenaline infusion of >0.5
       ng/kg/min despite adequate volume resuscitation. Mortality in these patients may be as high
       as 94% and the assessment and management of these patients requires a much more
       aggressive approach for survival. The term ,,refractory shock" is used when the tissue
25 perfusion cannot be restored with the initial corrective measures employed (e.g. vasopressors)
       and may therefore be referred to as ,,high vasopressor-dependent" or ,,Vasopressor-resistant"
        shock (Udupa and Sherry 2018. Indian J Respir Care 7.` 67B 72). Patients with refractory
       shock may have features of inadequate perfusion such as hypotension (mean arterial blood
       pressure <65 mmHg), tachycardia, cold peripheries, prolonged capillary refill time, and
30 tachypnea consequent to the hypoxia and acidosis. Fever may be seen in septic shock. Other
       signs of hypoperfusion such as altered sensorium, hyperlactatemia, and oliguria may also be
       seen. These wellenown signs of shock are not helpful in identifying whether the problem is
       at the pump (heart) or circuitry (vessels and tissues). Different types of shock can coexist, and
       all forms of shock can become refractory, as evidenced by unresponsiveness to highDdose
       vasopressors (Udupa and Sherry 2018. Indian J Respir Care 7: 6 7D 72).

       In a specific embodiment of the invention said refractory shock is vasopressor-resistant, that
       is defined by unresponsiveness of the patient to high dose vasopressors (e.g. >O.5 ng/kg/min
       noradrenaline).

       The consequence of the diagnosis or the prediction that a subject either runs into a
       vasopressor-resistant refractory shock or is diagnosed with a vasopressor-resistant refractory
10 shock maybe the administration of treatment like administration of angiotensin II inhibitors
       and/or DPP3 inhibitors. Furthermore, another consequence maybe the withholding of

         vasopressors.

       In a preferred embodiment of said method for predicting a refractory shock, in particular a
15 vasopressor-resitant shock, in a subject that potentially runs into shock, wherein it is predicted

       whether said subject runs into a refractory shock, in particular a vasopressor-resitant shock,
       from the point of time the sample is taken within 14 days, or in particular within 10 days, or
       in particular within 7 days, or in particular within 5 days, or in particular within 48 hours, or
       in particular within 24 hours, or in particular between 24 and 48 hours.

20

       Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or diagnosing
       a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of
       the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is above
25 a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or
       terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

       Another specific embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or
       diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed
30 shock, wherein a treatment with vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of
       DPP3 in said sample is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with
       Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
       activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said
       predetermined threshold.
        10

       A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or
       diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed
       shock, wherein a treatment with vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of
      DPP3 in said sample is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with
       Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
       activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said
       predetermined threshold and the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is
       determined and wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
10 fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments
      thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-
       ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said
       determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined
      threshold.
15 A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or
       diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed
       shock according to the present invention, wherein

    0 said subject may have suffered an acute coronary syndrome (e.g. acute myocardial

20  infarction) or wherein said subject has heart failure (e.g. acute decompensated heart

    failure), myocarditis, arrhythmia, cardiomyopathy, valvular heart disease, aortic

    dissection with acute aortic stenosis, traumatic chordal rupture or massive pulmonary

    embolism (in case of cardiogenic shock), or

    0 said subject may have suffered a hemorrhagic disease including gastrointestinal bleed,

25  trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, tumor eroding

    into a major blood vessel) and spontaneous bleeding in the setting of anticoagulant use

    or a non-hemorrhagic disease including vomiting, diarrhea, renal loss, skin

    losses/insensible losses (e.g. bums, heat stroke) or third-space loss in the setting of

    pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal obstruction, trauma, (in case of hypovolemic shock)

30  or

    0 said patient may have suffered a cardiac tamponade, tension pneumothoraX,

    pulmonary embolism or aortic stenosis (in case of obstructive shock), or

    0 said patient may have septic shock, neurogenic shock, anaphylactic shock or shock

    due to adrenal crisis (in case of distributive shock.)
                                                                    11

       A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or
       diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed
       shock according to the present invention, wherein said method is used for initiation and/or
       termination and/ or stratification and/or guidance of treatment.

       A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or
       diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed
       shock according to the present invention, wherein a treatment is initiated and/or maintained
10 and/or withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is above said
       predetermined threshold.

       Subject matter of the present invention are Vasopressors, Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists
       and/or precursors thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3 activity and/or anti-adrenomedullin
15 antibodies or anti-adrenomedullin antibody fragments for use in a method of prevention or
       treatment of a refractory shock in a subject that either either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, wherein said prediction and/or diagnosis of said refractory shock has been
       determined by a method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either
       runs into shock or that has developed shock according to the present invention. In one
20 embodiment of the beforementioned methods either the level of DPP3 protein and/or the level
       of active DPP3 is determined and compared to a predetermined threshold, wherein the level
       of DPP3 is determined by contacting said sample of bodily fluid with a capture binder that
       binds specifically to DPP3.

25 Subject matter of the present invention are Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors
       thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3 activity for use in a method of prevention or treatment of a
       refractory shock in a subject that either either runs into shock or that has developed shock,
       wherein said prediction and/or diagnosis of said refractory shock has been determined by a
       method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock

30 or that has developed shock according to the present invention, wherein a treatment with
       Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
       activity is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is above a certain
       threshold and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said
       determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.
                                                                    12

       Subject matter of the present invention are Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors
       thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3 activity for use in a method of prevention or treatment of a
       refractory shock in a subject that either either runs into shock or that has developed shock,
       wherein said prediction and/or diagnosis of said refractory shock has been determined by a
       method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock
       or that has developed shock according to the present invention, wherein a treatment with
       vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in said sample is below a
       certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or
10 precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the
       said determined level of DPP3 is below said predetermined threshold.

       Subject matter of the present invention is an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
       fragment for use in a method of prevention or treatment of a refractory shock in a subject that
       either either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said prediction and/or
15 diagnosis of said refractory shock has been determined by a method for predicting or
       diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed
       shock according to the present invention, wherein in addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin
       or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-
       ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro--adrenomedullin
20 or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment
       with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if
       the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said
       predetermined threshold.

25 Another embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for predicting or diagnosing
       a refractory shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment and/or Angiotensin-
       Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated
       and/or continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is

30 above a certain threshold and said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined
       threshold of DPP3.
                                                                    13

       Subject matter of the present invention is an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
       fragment and/or an inhibitor of the DPP3 activity for use in a method of prevention or
       treatment of a refractory shock in a subject that either either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, wherein said prediction and/or diagnosis of said refractory shock has been
       determined by a method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either
       runs into shock or that has developed shock according to the present invention, wherein
       treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment and/or Angiotensin-
       Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated
       and/or continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is
10 above a certain threshold and said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined
       threshold of DPP3.
       In a specific embodiment of the invention the threshold is within a threshold range for plasma
       DPP3 that is between 20 and 200 ng/ml, preferably between 25 and 150 ng/ml, even more
       preferred between 30 and 100 ng/ml, even more preferred between 35 and 75 ng/ml, most
15 preferred a threshold of 50 ng/mL is applied.

       In particular the refractory shock of said patient is a vasopressor-resistant shock.

       The peptide adrenomedullin (ADM) was described as a novel hypotensive peptide comprising
       52 amino acids, which had been isolated from a human pheochromocytoma (Kilamura er al.
20 1993. Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications 192 (2): 553-560). Cleavage
       of the N--tenninal signal sequence of 21 amino acids from pre-pro--Adrenomedullin (pre-
       proADM) results in the precursor peptide pro-Adrenomedullin (proADM) (SEQ ID No.: 31).
       Pro-ADM is further cleaved into PAMP (SEQ ID No. 32), MR-proADM (SEQ ID No. 33),
       ADM-Gly (SEQ ID No.: 35) and CT-proADM (SEQ ID No. 36). The mature adrenomedullin
25 peptide is an amidated peptide (ADM-NHZ), which comprises 52 amino acids (SEQ ID No:
       34) and which comprises the amino acids 95 to 146 of pre-proADM, from which it is formed
       by proteolytic cleavage. Mature ADM, bio-ADM and ADM-NHZ is used synonymously
       throughout this application and is a molecule according to SEQ ID No.: 34.

30 In one embodiment of the subject matter of the present invention said fragment of
       pro-Adrenomedullin is selected from a group comprising PAMP (SEQ ID No. 32),
       MR--proADM (SEQ ID No. 33), amidated ADM (SEQ ID No. 34), ADM-Gly (SEQ ID No.:
       35) and CT-proADM (SEQ ID No. 36).
                                                                    14

       ADM may be regarded as a polyfunctional regulatory peptide. It is released into the
       circulation partially in an inactive form extended by glycine (Kilamura el al. 1998. Biochem.
       Biophys. Res. Commun. 244(2): 551-555). There is also a binding protein (Pio el al. 2001.
       The Journal ofBiological Chemistry 276(15): 12292-12300), which is specific for ADM and
       probably likewise modulates the effect of ADM.

       Those physiological effects of ADM as well as of PAMP, which are of primary importance in
       the investigations to date, were the effects influencing blood pressure. Thus, ADM is an
       effective vasodilator. It was found that the concentrations of ADM, which can be measured in
10 the circulation and other biological fluids, are in a number of pathological states, significantly
       above the concentrations to be found in healthy control persons. Thus, the ADM level in
       patients with congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, kidney diseases, hypertensive
       disorders, diabetes mellitus, in the acute phase of shock and in sepsis and septic shock are
       significantly increased, although to different extents. The PAMP concentrations are also
15 increased in some of said pathological states, but the plasma levels are reduced relative to
       ADM (Eto el al. 2001. Peptides 22.` 1693-1711).

       Furthermore, it is known that unusual high concentrations of ADM are to be observed in
       sepsis or in septic shock (Elo el al. 2001. Peptides 22.` 1693-1711; Hiram el al. 1996. Journal
20 of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism 81 (4): 1449-1453; Eklenz el al. 1997. Exp Clin
       Endocrinol Diabetes 105: 156-162; Tomoda el al. 2001. Peptides 22.` 1783-1794; Ueda el al.
       1999 Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med.160.` 132-136; Wang el al. 2001. Peptides 22.` 1835-
       M). The findings are related to the typical hemodynamic changes which are known as
       typical phenomena of the course of a disease in patients with sepsis and other severe
25 syndromes, such as, for example, SIRS. Adrenomedullin plays pivotal roles during sepsis
        development (Wang, Shock 1998, 10(5).'383-384; Wang el al. 1998. Archives of surgery
       133(12): 1298-1304) and in numerous acute and chronic diseases (Parlagicmo el al. 1999.
       European Review for Medical and Pharmacological Sciences 3:53-61; Hinson el al. 2000
       Endocrine Reviews 21 (2) .`1 38-1 6 7).
30 MR--proADM has been identified as a prognostic marker that is able to stratify the mortality
       risk in sepsis patients with different degrees of organ failure. It may be helpful in the early
       identification and individual risk assessment of sepsis and may also facilitate the subsequent
       clinical management of sepsis and septic shock (for review see Onal er a1. 2018. Healthcare

     6: 110).
                                                                    15

       Several methods were described to measure circulating levels of ADM: either ADM directly
       or indirectly by determining a more stable fragment of its cognate precursor peptide. Recently
       a method was published, describing an assay to measure circulating mature ADM (Weber er
       al. 2017. JALM2.` 222-233).

       Other methods to quantify fragments derived from the ADM precursor have been described,
       e.g. the measurement of MR--proADM (Morgenlhaler er al. 2005. Clin Chem 51(10):]823-9),
       PAMP (Washimine el al. 1994. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 202(2):]081-7) and CT-
10 proADM (EP 2 111 552). A commercial homogeneous time-resolved fluoroimmunoassay for
       the measurement of MR--proADM in plasma on a fully automated system is available
       (BRAHJVIS MR--proADM KRYPTOR; BRAHJVIS GmbH, Hennigsdorf, Germany) (Car_uhel
       er al. 2009. Clin Biochem 42(7--8).'725-8). As these peptides are generated in a stoichiometric
       ratio from the same precursor, their plasma levels are correlated to a certain extent.

15

       The generation of anti-ADM antibodies is known in the art (e.g. W02013072512 and
       W02019057992 incorporated herein by reference).

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an anti-ADM antibody or an anti-ADM
20 antibody fragment for use in treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that

       has developed shock, wherein said antibody or fragment or scaffold binds to the N--terminal
       part (aa 1-21) of mature ADM: YRQSMNNFQGLRSFGCRFGTC (SEQ ID No. 37).

       In another preferred embodiment said anti-ADM antibody or an anti-ADM antibody fragment
25 recognizes and binds to the N--terminal end (aal) of ADM. N--terminal end means that the

       amino acid 1, that is "Y" of SEQ ID No. 34 and 35 is mandatory for antibody binding. Said
       antibody or fragment or non-Ig scaffold would neither bind N--terminal extended nor N-
       terminally modified ADM nor N--terminally degraded ADM.

30 Another embodiment of the invention relates to an anti-ADM antibody or an anti-ADM
       antibody fragment for use in treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that
       has developed shock, wherein said antibody or fragment is a human monoclonal antibody or
       fragment that binds to the N--terminal region (aa 1-21) of mature ADM (SEQ ID No. 37) or an
       antibody fragment thereof wherein the heavy chain comprises the sequences:
                                                                    16

       GYTFSRYW (CDRI: SEQ ID NO: 38), ILPGSGST (CDRZ: SEQ ID NO: 39),
       TEGYEYDGFDY (CDR3: SEQ ID NO: 40) and
       wherein the light chain comprises the sequences:

     QSIVYSNGNTY (CDRI: SEQ ID NO: 41), RVS (CDRZ), FQGSHIPYT (CDR3: SEQ ID
     NO: 42).

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an anti-ADM antibody or an anti-ADM
       antibody fragment for use in treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that
       has developed shock, wherein said antibody is a monoclonal antibody comprising the
10 following sequence as a heavy chain:

      QVQLVQ S GAEVKKPGS SVKVSCKAS GYTFSRYWIEWVRQAPGQGLEWIGEILPGSG

       S_TNYNQKF QGRVTITAD T S T S TAYMEL S SLRSEDTAVYYCTE GYEYDGFDYWGQGT

      TVTVS SASTKGPSVFPLAP S SKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALT SGVHT

       FPAVLQ S S GLYSL S SVVTVP S S SLGTQTYICNVNHKP SNTKVDKKVEPK S CDKTHTCP
15 PCPAPELLGGP SVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEV

       HNAKTKPREEQYNS TYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI SKAK
        GQPREPQVYTLPP SRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYP SDIAVEWE SNGQPENNYKTTPPVL
       D SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVF SC SVMHEALHNHYTQK SL SLSPGK (SEQ ID
       NO : 43)

20 and werein said monoclonal antibody is comprising the following sequence as light chain:

       DVVLTQ SPLSLPVTLGQPASISCRS Sg QSIVYSNGNTYLEWYLQRPGQ SPRLLIYR_VSNR
       F SGVPDRF SGSGSGTDF TLKISRVEAEDVGVYYCFS QGSHIPYTF GGGTKLEIKRTVAA
       P SVFIFPP SDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQ SGNSQESVTEQD SK
       D STY SL S STLTL SKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLS SPVTKSFNRGEC (SEQ ID No. 44).

25

       Endothelial dysfunction can result from and/or contribute to several disease processes, as
       occurs in shock, especially septic shock. From preclinical experiments in models of sepsis/
       septic shock it is known that administration of the anti-ADM antibody induces an increase of
       the plasma bio-ADM concentration and that this coincides with an increased survival rate
30 (Struck el al. 2013. Intensive Care Med Exp 1(1).'22). The mechanism underlying this effect
       has been described in Geven et a1. 2018 (Geven el al. 2018. SHOCK 50 (2): 1327140).
       Briefly, the antibody, when administered i.V., due to its size cannot cross the endothelial
       barrier into the interstitium, but remains in the blood circulation. In contrast, ADM, as a small
                                                                    17

       peptide, can freely diffuse across the endothelial barrier. Thus, the antibody, when
       administered in a vast molar excess over the endogenous ADM, binds Virtually all ADM in
       the plasma and, as a simple consequence of reaching binding equilibrium, leads to a
       translocation of ADM from the interstitium to the blood circulation. Interstitially located
       ADM can bind to vascular smooth muscle cells and induces relaxation resulting in
       vasodilation. This is reduced by administration of the antibody. On the other hand, ADM in
       plasma binds to endothelial cells and thereby stabilizes or even restores vascular integrity.
       Thus, this function is strengthened, when plasma ADM levels increase as a consequence of
       administration of the antibody, which is a non-neutralizing antibody. Finally, binding of the
10 antibody to ADM reduces the proteolytic decay of ADM. Taken together, the anti-ADM
       antibody Adrecizumab may restore endothelial function in shock egg. in septic shock.

       If said level of Pro--Adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is above a certain threshold level the
       anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment binding to ADM is administered as
15 therapy.

       This means in a specific embodiment subject matter of the present invention said anti-ADM
       antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment binding to ADM is for therapy, wherein a sample of
       bodily fluid taken from said patients exhibits an elevated level of proADM and/or fragments
20 thereof having at least 5 amino acids above a certain threshold. Thus, the diagnostic method
       using said proADM and/or fragments serves as companion diagnostic method.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention the threshold is within a threshold range for plasma
       ADM-NHZ that is between 50 and 250 pg/ml, preferably between 55 and 200 pg/ml, even
25 more preferred between 60 and 150 pg/ml, even more preferred beween 65 and 100 pg/ml,
       most preferred a threshold of 70 pg/ml is applied.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention the threshold is within a threshold range for plasma
       MR--proADM that is between 0.5 and 3 nmol/L, preferably between 0.6 and 2 nmol/L, even
30 more preferred between 0.7 and 1 ng/mL, most preferred a threshold of 0.8 nmol/L is applied.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention the threshold is within a threshold range for plasma
       CT-proADM that is between 85 and 500 pmol/L, preferably between 90 and 350 pmol/L,
                                                                    18

       even more preferred between 95 and 250 pmol/L, even more preferred between 100 and 200
       pmol/L, most preferred a threshold of 150 pmol/L is applied.

       The ADM-NHZ levels of the present invention or proADM levels or fragments thereof,
       respectively, have been determined with the described ADM-NHZ assay, as outlined in the
       examples (or proADM or fragments thereof assays, respectively) (Weber el al. 2017. JALM
       M). The DPP3 levels of the present invention have been determined with the described
       DPP3-assays as outlined in the examples. The mentioned threshold values above might be
       different in other assays, if these have been calibrated differently from the assay systems used
10 in the present invention. Therefore, the mentioned cut-off values above shall apply for such
       differently calibrated assays accordingly, taking into account the differences in calibration.
       One possibility of quantifying the difference in calibration is a method comparison analysis
       (correlation) of the assay in question with the respective biomarker assay used in the present
       invention by measuring the respective biomarker (e.g. bio-ADM, DPP3) in samples using
15 both methods. Another possibility is to determine with the assay in question, given this test
       has sufficient analytical sensitivity, the median biomarker level of a representative normal
       population, compare results with the median biomarker levels as described in the literature
       and recalculate the calibration based on the difference obtained by this comparison. With the
       calibration used in the present invention, samples from normal (healthy) subjects have been
20 measured: median plasma bio-ADM (mature ADM-NHZ) was 24.7 pg/ml, the lowest value 11
       pg/ml and the 99th percentile 43 pg/ml Marina el al. 2014. Critical Care 18.`R34). With the
       calibration used in the present invention, samples from 5,400 normal (healthy) subjects
       (swedish single-center prospective population-based Study (MPP-RES» have been measured:
       median (interquartile range) plasma DPP3 was 14.5 ng/ml (11.3 ng/ml -- 19 ng/ml).

25

       The plasma median MR--proADM concentration in normal (healthy) subjects was 0.41
       (interquartile range 0.23 - 0.64) nmol/L (Smith el al. 2009. Clin Chem 55315934595) using
       the automated sandwich fluorescence assay for the detection of MR--proADM as described in
        Caruhel et a1. (Caruhel el al. 2009. Clin Biochem 42:725-8).

30

       The plasma median concentration of CT-proADM in normal healthy subjects (n=200) was
       77.6 pmol/L (min 46.6 pmol/L, max 136.2 pmol/L) and the 95% percentile was 113.8 pmol/L

     (EP 2111552 B1).
                                                                    19

       In a specific embodiment of the invention a threshold for plasma ADM-NHZ is the 5fold
       median concentration, preferably the 4fold median concentration, more preferred the 3fold
       median concentration, most preferred the 2fold median concentration of a normal healthy
       population.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention a threshold for plasma MR--proADM is the 5fold
       median concentration, preferably the 4fold median concentration, more preferred the 3fold
       median concentration, most preferred the 2fold median concentration of a normal healthy
       population.

10

       In a specific embodiment of the invention a threshold for plasma CT-proADM is the 5fold
       median concentration, preferably the 4fold median concentration, more preferred the 3fold
       median concentration, most preferred the 2fold median concentration of a normal healthy
       population.

15

       In embodiments of the present invention, the anti-ADM antibody or an anti-ADM antibody
       fragment for use in a treatment of a patient in need thereof, may be administered in a dose of
       at least 0.5 mg / Kg body weight, particularly at least 1.0 mg/kg body weight, more
       particularly, from 1.0 to 20.0 mg/kg body weight, e.g., from 2.0 to 10 mg/kg body weight,
20 from 2.0 to 8.0 mg/kg body weight, or from 2.0 to 5.0 mg/kg body weight.

       One embodiment of the invention relates to a vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said subject has a
       level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject that is below a predetermined
25 threshold, when determined by any of the methods of predicting or diagnosing a refractory
       shock according to the present invention.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said vasopressor is
30 selected from the group comprising dopamine, norepinephrine, a norepinephrine equivalent,
       epinephrine, phenylephrine and vasopressin.
                                                                    20

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to a vasopressor for use in therapy of
       shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said
       vasopressor is administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said subject has a
       blood pressure of equal or less than 65 mm Hg.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
10 therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein

       said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject that is above a
       predetermined threshold when determined by a method described in the aforementioned
        embodiments.

15 Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3
       for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock,
       wherein the inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is selected from the group comprising anti-DPP3
       antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

20 One embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
       therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       said inhibitor has a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than 10'7 M.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
25 therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein

       the inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is an antibody.

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3
       for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock,
30 wherein said inhibitor is an antibody that is monoclonal.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
       therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       said inhibitor is a monoclonal antibody, wherein the complementarity determining regions
35 (CDR's) in the heavy chain comprises the sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 7, SEQ ID NO.: 8 and/ or
                                                                    21

       SEQ ID NO.: 9 and the complementarity determining regions (CDR's) in the light chain
       comprises the sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 10, KVS and/or SEQ ID NO.: 11.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
       therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       said inhibitor is a humanized monoclonal antibody or humanized monoclonal antibody
       fragment, wherein the heavy chain comprises the sequence: SEQ ID NO.: 12 and wherein the
       light chain comprises the sequence: SEQ ID NO.: 13.

10 Said inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 maybe administered by inhalation.

       One embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
       therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       said inhibitor is administered in combination with an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or
15 precursors thereof.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in
       therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein
       said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or precursors thereof is selected from the group
20 comprising angiotensin I, angiotensin II, angiotensin III, angiotensin IV, in particular
       angiotensin 11.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or
       precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity for use in the treatment of shock in a
25 subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein the treatment with
       said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
       activity is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is
       above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or
       terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

30

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to a vasopressor for use in the treatment
       of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein the
       treatment with said vasopressor is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a
       sample of bodily fluid of said subject is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment
                                                                    22

       with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
       activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said
       predetermined threshold.

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to a vasopressor for use in the treatment
       of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein the
       treatment with said vasopressor is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a
       sample of bodily fluid of said subject is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment
       with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
10 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said
       predetermined threshold and wherein the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is
       determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
       fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments
       thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-
15 ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said
       determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined
       threshold.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or
20 precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity for use in the treatment of shock in a

       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein the treatment with
       said vasopressor is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily
       fluid of said subject is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with
       Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3
25 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said
       predetermined threshold, and wherein the level of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is
       determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
       fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments
       thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-
30 ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said
       determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined
       threshold.
                                                                    23

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM
       antibody fragment for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
       that has developed shock, wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM
       antibody and/or Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors
       of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
       fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and said determined level of
       DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

       In case the level of of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is determined
10 and the level of DPP3 in said sample is determined said determination maybe conducted by a

       point-of--care device that provides both: a test for determining level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
       fragments thereof and a test for determining the level of DPP3 in said sample.

       Beginning of treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is
15 indicated when a patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of

       bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold level.

       One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject that
       either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
20 vasopressor to said subject, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily
       fluid of said subject that is below a predetermined threshold, when determined by a method
       described in previous embodiments.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
25 that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering

       vasopressor to said subject, wherein said vasopressor is selected from the group comprising
       dopamine, norepinephrine, a norepinephrine equivalent, epinephrine, phenylephrine and
       vasopressin.

30 A specific embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       vasopressor to said subject, wherein said vasopressor is administered to said subject in a
       pharmaceutical formulation.
                                                                    24

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       vasopressor to said subject, wherein said subject has a blood pressure of equal or less than 65
       mm Hg.

       One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject that
       either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a
       sample of bodily fluid of said subject that is above a predetermined threshold when
10 determined by a method described in previous embodiments.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein the inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is
15 selected from the group comprising anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or
       anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising
20 administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subj ect, wherein said inhibitor has a minimum
       binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than 10'7 M.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
25 inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein the inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is an
       antibody.

       One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject that
       either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
30 inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is an antibody that is
       monoclonal.

       One specific embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising
                                                                    25

       administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is a
       monoclonal antibody, wherein the complementarity determining regions (CDR's) in the
       heavy chain comprises the sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 7, SEQ ID NO.: 8 and/ or SEQ ID NO.: 9
       and the complementarity determining regions (CDR's) in the light chain comprises the
       sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 10, KVS and/or SEQ ID NO.: 11.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is a humanized monoclonal
10 antibody or humanized monoclonal antibody fragment, wherein the heavy chain comprises
       the sequence: SEQ ID NO.: 12 and wherein the light chain comprises the sequence: SEQ ID
       NO.: 13.

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a
15 subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising

       administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is administered
       in combination with an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or precursors thereof.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
20 that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering

       inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or
       precursors thereof is selected from the group comprising angiotensin I, angiotensin II,
       angiotensin III, angiotensin IV, in particular angiotensin 11.

25 Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitor of DPP3 activity to
       said subject, wherein the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or
       precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued when

30 the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a
       treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is
       above said predetermined threshold.
                                                                    26

       One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject that
       either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       vasopressor to said subject, wherein the treatment with said vasopressors is initiated and/or
       continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is below a
       certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or
       precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the
       said determined level of DPP3 is below said predetermined threshold.

       One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject that
10 either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering

       Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitor of DPP3 activity
       to said subject, wherein the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or
       precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued when
       the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a
15 treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is
       above said predetermined threshold and wherein the level of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments
       thereof is determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM
       antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
       fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with
20 an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the
       said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said
       predetermined threshold.

       One specific embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a
25 subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising

       administering vasopressor to said subject, wherein the treatment with said vasopressors is
       initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject
       is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists
       and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated
30 if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said predetermined threshold and wherein the
       level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with
       said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when
       the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain
       threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
                                                                    27

       fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro--adrenomedullin or
       fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

       Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a subject
       that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising administering
       anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment to said subject, wherein the level of Pro-
       adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with said anti-
       ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level
       of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or
10 wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld
       and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is
       below said predetermined threshold and wherein the treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-
       Agonists and/or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or
       continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is above a certain threshold
15 and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said
       determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold

       Another specific embodiment of the invention relates to a method of treatment of shock in a
       subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock, the method comprising
20 administering anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment to said subject, wherein
       treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody and/or Angiotensin-Receptor-
       Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or
       continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a
       certain threshold and said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of
25 DPP3.

       An agonist means a chemical that binds to a receptor and activates the receptor to produce a
       biological response. Receptors can be activated by either endogenous agonists (such as
       hormones and neurotransmitters) or exogenous agonists (such as drugs), resulting in a
30 biological response. Full agonists bind to and activate a receptor with the maximum response
       that an agonist can elicit at the receptor. Partial agonists are drugs that bind to and activate a
       given receptor, but have only partial efficacy at the receptor relative to a filll agonist. Potency
       is the amount of agonist needed to elicit a desired response. The potency of an agonist is
       inversely related to its EC50 value. The EC50 can be measured for a given agonist by
                                                                    28

       determining the concentration of agonist needed to elicit half of the maximum biological
       response of the agonist. The EC50 value is useful for comparing the potency of drugs with
       similar efficacies producing physiologically similar effects. The smaller the EC50 value, the
       greater the potency of the agonist, the lower the concentration of drug that is required to elicit
       the maximum biological response.

       The treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/or a precursor thereof may be
       continued as long as the patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a
       sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold level.

10

       The amount of DPP3 protein and/ or the DPP3 activity is measured at least every 24 hours,
       preferred every 12 hours, more preferred every 8 hours, even more preferred every 6 hours,
       even more preferred every 4 hours, even more preferred every 2 hours, even more preferred
       every hour, most preferred every 30 minutes.

15 The treatment with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof may be
       discontinued when the patient has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a
       sample of bodily fluid that is below a predetermined threshold level.

       Angiotensin Therapeutics:
20 Angiotensin I, also called proangiotensin, is formed by the action of renin on

       angiotensinogen. Renin cleaves the peptide bond between the leucine (Leu) and valine (Val)
       residues on angiotensinogen, creating the decapeptide (ten amino acid) (des-Asp) angiotensin
       I. Angiotensin I is converted to angiotensin 11 through removal of two C-terminal residues by
       the enzyme angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), primarily through ACE within the lung
25 (but also present in endothelial cells, kidney epithelial cells, and the brain).

       Angiotensin II, angiotensin III, and angiotensin IV are peptide hormones naturally produced
       by the body that regulates blood pressure Via vasoconstriction and sodium reabsorption.
       Hemodynamic effects of angiotensin II administration have been the subject of numerous
30 clinical studies, demonstrating significant effects on systemic and renal blood flow (Harrison-
       Bernard, LM, The renal renin-angiotensin system. Adv Physio] Educ, 33 (4) .' 270 (2009)).
                                                                    29

       Angiotensin II is a hormone produced by the renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS)
       that modulates blood pressure Via regulation of vascular smooth muscle tone and extracellular
       fluid homeostasis. Angiotensin II mediates its effects on the vasculature by inducing
       vasoconstriction and sodium retention, and so is the target of many therapies for hypertension.
       In addition to its systemic effects, angiotensin II has a pronounced effect on the efferent
       arterioles of the kidney, maintaining glomerular filtration when blood flow is decreased.
       Angiotensin II also regulates sodium reabsorption in the kidney by stimulating Na+/H+
       exchangers in the proximal tubule and inducing the release of aldosterone and vasopressin
        (Harrison-Bernard 2009. The renal renin-angiotensin system. Adv Physio] Educ, 33 (4) .`2 70).

10

       The angiotensin II therapeutic that may be used in the compositions and methods of this
       disclosure may be Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 13), also called
       5-isoleucine angiotensin II. SEQ ID NO: 13 is an octa--peptide naturally present in humans
       and other species, such as equines, hogs, etc. Isoleucine may be substituted by valine to result
15 in 5-Vaiine angiotensin II, Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Val-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 14). Other
       angiotensin II analogues such as [Asnl-Phe4]-angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 15), hexapeptide
       Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 16), nonapeptide Asn-Arg-Val-Tyr-Tyr-Val-His-Pro-
       Phe (SEQ ID NO: 17), [Asn1 Ile5 Ile8]-angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 18), [Asn1 -lle5- Alas]-
       angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 19), and [Asnl-diiodoTyr4-Ile5-angiotensin II (SEQ ID NO: 20)
20 may also be used. Angiotensin II may be synthesized, for example, by solid phase peptide
       synthesis to incorporate modifications, such as C -terminal amidation. The term "angiotensin
       II", without further specificity, is intended to refer to any of these various forms, as well as
        combinations thereof.

25 In some aspects, a composition comprising angiotensin II may be selected from 5-Valine
       angiotensin II, 5-Valine angiotensin II amide, 5-L-isoleucine angiotensin II, and
       5-L-isoleucine angiotensin II amide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably
       manufactured under current good manufacturing conditions (cGMP). In some aspects, the
       composition may include different forms of angiotensin II in different percentages, e.g., a

30 mixture of hexapeptide and nonapeptide angiotensin II. The composition comprising
       angiotensin II may be suitable for parenteral administration, e.g., for injection or intravenous
       infusion.
                                                                    30

       The sequence of angiotensin II used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein may be
       homologous to the sequences of angiotensin II described above. In certain aspects, the
       invention includes isolated, synthetic, or recombinant amino acid sequences that are at least

     80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,

       18, 19 and/or 20. Any such variant sequences may be used in place of an angiotensin II as
       described in the preceding paragraph.

       Sequence identity for all sequences is determined according to the following method: Percent
       identity is calculated by multiplying the number of matches in the pair by 100 and dividing by
       the length of the aligned region, including gaps (Percent Identity = [Matches X lOO]/Length of
10 aligned region [with gaps]).

       Angiotensin III is a metabolite of angiotensin II with approximately 40% of the activity of
       angiotensin II. An angiotensin III therapeutic that may be used for in the compositions and
       methods of this disclosure may be Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro--Phe (SEQ ID NO: 21). SEQ ID
15 NO: 21 is an hepta-peptide naturally present in humans and other species, such as equines,
       hogs, etc. Isoleucine may be substituted by valine to result in Arg-Val-Tyr-Val-His-Pro--Phe
       (SEQ ID NO: 22). Other angiotensin III analogues such as [Phe3]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID
       NO: 23), [Ile4-Ala7]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID NO: 24), and [diiodoTy13-Ile4]-angiotensin III
       (SEQ ID NO: 25) may also be used. Angiotensin III may be synthesized, for example, by
20 solid phase peptide synthesis to incorporate modifications, such as C-terminal amidation. The
       term "angiotensin III", without further specificity, is intended to refer to any of these various
       forms, as well as combinations thereof.

       In some aspects, a composition comprising angiotensin III may be selected from 4-Valine
25 angiotensin III, 4-Valine angiotensin III amide, 4-L-isoleucine angiotensin III, and

       4-L-isoleucine angiotensin III amide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably
       manufactured under current good manufacturing conditions (cGMP). A composition
       comprising angiotensin III may be suitable for parenteral administration, e.g., for injection or
       intravenous infusion.
30 The sequence of angiotensin III used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein may
       be homologous to the sequences of angiotensin III described above. In certain aspects, the
       invention includes isolated, synthetic, or recombinant amino acid sequences that are at least

     80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 21, 22, 23, 24
                                                                    31

       and/or 25. Any such variant sequences may be used in place of an angiotensin II as described
       in the preceding paragraph.

       Angiotensin IV is a metabolite of angiotensin III with less activity than angiotensin II. An
       angiotensin IV therapeutic that may be used for in the compositions and methods of this
       disclosure may be Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 26). SEQ ID NO: 26 is a hexa-
       peptide naturally present in humans and other species. Isoleucine may be substituted by
       valine to result in Val-Tyr-Val-His-Pro-Phe (SEQ ID NO: 27). Other angiotensin IV
       analogues such as [Phe2]-angiotensin III (SEQ ID NO: 28), [Ile3-A1a6]-angiotensin IV (SEQ
10 ID NO: 29), and [diiodoTyrZ-Ile3]--angiotensin IV (SEQ ID NO: 30) may also be used.
       Angiotensin IV may be synthesized, for example, by solid phase peptide synthesis to
       incorporate modifications, such as C-terminal amidation. The term "angiotensin IV", without
       further specificity, is intended to refer to any of these various forms, as well as combinations
       thereof.
15 In some aspects, a composition comprising angiotensin IV may be selected from 3-Va1ine
       angiotensin IV, 3-Va1ine angiotensin IV amide, 3-L-isoleucine angiotensin IV, and
       3-L-isoieucine angiotensin IV amide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably
       manufactured under current good manufacturing conditions (cGMP). A composition
       comprising angiotensin IV may be suitable for parenteral administration, e.g., for injection or
20 intravenous infusion.

       The sequence of angiotensin IV used in the compositions and methods disclosed herein may
       be homologous to the sequences of angiotensin IV described above. In certain aspects, the
       invention includes isolated, synthetic, or recombinant amino acid sequences that are at least

25 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 25, 26, 27, 28, 29

       and/or 30. Any such variant sequences may be used in place of an angiotensin IV as described
       in the preceding paragraph.

       An angiotensin II, angiotensin III, or angiotensin IV therapeutic may be used as any suitable
30 salt (e.g. acetate), deprotected form, acetylated form, deacetylated form, and/or prodrug form

       of the above-mentioned peptides, including pegylated forms of the peptides or conjugates as
       disclosed in US Patent Publication 2011/0081371 (incorporated by reference). The term
       "prodrug" refers to any precursor compound which is able to generate or to release the above-
       mentioned peptide under physiological conditions. Such prodrugs or precursors may be larger
                                                                    32

       peptides which are selectively cleaved in order to form the peptide of the invention. For
       example, in some aspects, the prodrug or precursor may be angiotensinogen, angiotensin I, or
       its homologues that may result in angiotensin II by the action of certain endogenous or
       exogenous enzymes. Further prodrugs or precursors include peptides with protected amino
       acids, e.g., having protecting groups at one or more carboxylic acid and/or amino groups.
       Suitable protecting groups for amino groups include the benzyloxycarbonyl, t-
       butyloxycarbonyl (BOC), fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (FMOC), formyl, and acetyl or acyl
       group. Suitable protecting groups for the carboxylic acid group include esters such as benzyl
       esters or t-butyl esters. The present invention also contemplates the use of angiotensin II,
10 angiotensin III, angiotensin IV and/or precursor peptides having amino acid substitutions,
       deletions, additions, the substitutions and additions including the standard D and L amino
       acids and modified amino acids, such as, for example, amidated and acetylated amino acids,
       wherein the therapeutic activity of the base peptide sequence is maintained at a
       pharmacologically useful level.

15

       In a preferred embodiment the angiotensin II is angiotensin II acetate. Angiotensin II acetate
       is L-Aspartyl-L-arginy1-L-Va1y1-Ltyrosy1-L-isoleucyl-L-histidyl-L-prolyl-L-phenylalanine,
       acetate salt. The counter ion acetate is present in a non-stoichiometric ratio. The molecular
       formula of angiotensin II acetate is C50H71N13012 - (C2H4Oz)n; (n=number of acetate
20 molecules; theoretical n = 3) with an average molecular weight of 1046.2 (as free base).

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment of a disease in a subject, wherein said subject has an amount
       of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a
25 predetermined threshold, wherein the determination of the amount of DPP3 protein and/or
       DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is used as therapy guidance and/or therapy
       monitoring for said treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

       In one embodiment of the invention the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a
30 sample of bodily fluid is determined before treatment of the subject with an angiotensin-

       receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the amount
       of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined during
       treatment of the subject with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof at
       least once during treatment, preferably at least twice or preferably at least once daily during
                                                                    33

       treatment. In one embodiment of the invention the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3
       activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined after treatment of the subject with an
       angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof. In one embodiment of the invention
       the amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid is determined
       before and/or during and/or after treatment of the subject with an angiotensin-receptor-agonist
       and/ or a precursor thereof.

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment ofshock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
10 developed shock , wherein said subject has an amount of DPP3 protein and/or DPP3 activity
       in a sample of bodily fluid that is above a predetermined threshold, wherein said sample of
       bodily fluid of said subject is selected from whole blood, blood plasma and blood serum.

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
15 thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

       developed shock, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is
       administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.

       The term "pharmaceutical formulation" means a pharmaceutical (active) ingredient in
20 combination with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock , wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is
25 Angiotensin II and said pharmaceutical formulation is a solution, preferably a ready-to-use
       solution. In another embodiment subject of the present invention is further a pharmaceutical
       formulation according to the present invention wherein said pharmaceutical formulation is in
        a dried state to be reconstituted before use.

30 The pharmaceutical formulation as disclosed herein may also contain diluents, fillers, salts,
       buffers, stabilizers, solubilizers, and other materials well known in the art. The term
       "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to a non-toxic carrier that may be administered to
       a patient, together with a therapeutically effective substance (such as angiotensin II) of this
       invention, and which does not destroy the pharmacological activity of the therapeutically
                                                                    34

       effective substance. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" means a non-toxic material that
       does not interfere with the effectiveness of the biological activity of the active ingredient(s).

       The characteristics of the carrier will depend on the route of administration. The term
       "excipient" refers to an additive in a formulation or composition that is not a pharmaceutically
       active ingredient.

       The term "pharmaceutical (active) ingredient" means a therapeutic composition which can be
       optionally combined with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients to provide a pharmaceutical
10 formulation or dosage form.

       One of skill in the art would appreciate that the choice of any one excipient may influence the
       choice of any other excipient. For example, the choice of a particular excipient may preclude
       the use of one or more additional excipients because the combination of excipients would
15 produce undesirable effects. Excipients of the invention may include, but are not limited to,
       co-solvents, solubilizing agents, buffers, pH adjusting agents, bulking agents, surfactants,
       encapsulating agents, tonicity-adjusting agents, stabilizing agents, protectants, and Viscosity
       modifiers.

20 In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in the
       compositions as dislosed herein.

       In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a solubilizing agent in the compositions of the
       invention. Solubilizing agents may be useful for increasing the solubility of any of the
25 components of the formulation or composition, including a therapeutically effective substance
       (e.g., angiotensin II, angiotensin III, or angiotensin IV) or an excipient. The solubilizing
       agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided
       merely as exemplary solubilizing agents that may be used in the compositions of the
       invention. In certain aspects, solubilizing agents include, but are not limited to, ethyl alcohol,
30 tert-butyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, glycerol, methylparaben, propylparaben, polyethylene
       glycol, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, and any pharmaceutically acceptable salts and/or combinations
       thereof.
                                                                    35

       In some aspects, it may be beneficial to adjust the pH of the compositions by including a
       pH-adjusting agent in the compositions of the invention. Modifying the pH of a formulation
       or composition may have beneficial effects on, for example, the stability or solubility of a
       therapeutically effective substance, or may be useful in making a formulation or composition
       suitable for parenteral administration. pH-adjusting agents are well known in the art.
       Accordingly, the pH-adjusting agents described herein are not intended to constitute an
       exhaustive list, but are provided merely as exemplary pH-adjusting agents that may be used in
       the compositions of the invention. pH-adjusting agents may include, for example, acids and
       bases. In some aspects, a pH-adjusting agent includes, but is not limited to, acetic acid,
10 hydrochloric acid, phosphoric acid, sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, and combinations
       thereof.

       The pH of the compositions as disclosed herein may be any pH that provides desirable
       properties for the formulation or composition. Desirable properties may include, for example,
15 therapeutically effective substance (e.g., angiotensin II, angiotensin III, or angiotensin IV)
       stability, increased therapeutically effective substance retention as compared to compositions
       at other pHs, and improved filtration efficiency. In some aspects, the pH of the compositions
       of the invention may be from about 3.0 to about 9.0, e.g., from about 5.0 to about 7.0. In
       particular aspects, the pH of the compositions of the invention may be 5.5i0.1, 5.6i0.1,

20 5.7:0.1, 5.8:01, 5.9:01, 60:0.1, 61:0.1, 62:0.1, 63:0.1, 64:0.1, or 65:0.1.

       In some aspects, it may be beneficial to buffer the pH by including one or more buffers in the
       compositions. In certain aspects, a buffer may have a pKa of, for example, about 5.5, about
       6.0, or about 6.5. One of skill in the art would appreciate that an appropriate buffer may be
25 chosen for inclusion in compositions of the invention based on its pKa and other properties.

       Buffers are well known in the art. Accordingly, the buffers described herein are not intended
       to constitute an exhaustive list, but are provided merely as exemplary buffers that may be
       used in the compositions of the invention. In certain aspects, a buffer may include one or
30 more of the following: Tris, Tris HCl, potassium phosphate, sodium phosphate, sodium
       citrate, sodium ascorbate, combinations of sodium and potassium phosphate, Tris/Tris HCl,
       sodium bicarbonate, arginine phosphate, arginine hydrochloride, histidine hydrochloride,
       cacodylate, succinate, 2-(N--morpholino)ethanesu1fonic acid (MES), maleate, bis-tris,
       phosphate, carbonate, and any pharmaceutically acceptable salts and/or combinations thereof.
                                                                    36

       In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a surfactant in the compositions of the
       invention. Surfactants, in general, decrease the surface tension of a liquid composition. This
       may provide beneficial properties such as improved ease of filtration. Surfactants also may act
       as emulsifying agents and/or solubilizing agents. Surfactants are well known in the art.
       Accordingly, the surfactants described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list,
       but are provided merely as exemplary surfactants that may be used in the compositions of the
       invention. Surfactants that may be included include, but are not limited to, sorbitan esters
       such as polysorbates (e.g., polysorbate 20 and polysorbate 80), lipopolysaccharides,
10 polyethylene glycols (e.g., PEG 400 and PEG 3000), poloxamers (i.e., pluronics), ethylene
       oxides and polyethylene oxides (e.g., Triton X-100), saponins, phospholipids (e.g., lecithin),
        and combinations thereof.

       In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a tonicity-adjusting agent in the compositions
15 of the invention. The tonicity of a liquid composition is an important consideration when

       administering the composition to a patient, for example, by parenteral administration.
       Tonicity-adjusting agents, thus, may be used to help make a formulation or composition
       suitable for administration. Tonicity-adjusting agents are well known in the art. Accordingly,
       the tonicity-adjusting agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list,
20 but are provided merely as exemplary tonicity-adjusting agents that may be used in the
       compositions of the invention. Tonicity-adjusting agents may be ionic or non-ionic and
       include, but are not limited to, inorganic salts, amino acids, carbohydrates, sugars, sugar
       alcohols, and carbohydrates. Exemplary inorganic salts may include sodium chloride,
       potassium chloride, sodium sulfate, and potassium sulfate. An exemplary amino acid is
25 glycine. Exemplary sugars may include sugar alcohols such as glycerol, propylene glycol,
       glucose, sucrose, lactose, and mannitol.

       In some aspects, it may be beneficial to include a stabilizing agent in the compositions of the
       invention. Stabilizing agents help increase the stability of a therapeutically effective substance
30 in compositions of the invention. This may occur by, for example, reducing degradation or
       preventing aggregation of a therapeutically effective substance. Without wishing to be bound
       by theory, mechanisms for enhancing stability may include sequestration of the
       therapeutically effective substance from a solvent or inhibiting free radical oxidation of the
       anthracycline compound. Stabilizing agents are well known in the art. Accordingly, the
                                                                    37

       stabilizing agents described herein are not intended to constitute an exhaustive list, but are
       provided merely as exemplary stabilizing agents that may be used in the compositions of the
       invention. Stabilizing agents may include, but are not limited to, emulsifiers and surfactants.

       The compositions as disclosed herein can be administered in a variety of conventional ways.
       In some aspects, the compositions of the invention are suitable for parenteral administration.
       These compositions may be administered, for example, intraperitoneally, intravenously,
       intrarenally, intrathecally or by inhalation. In some aspects, the compositions of the invention
       are injected intravenously. One of skill in the art would appreciate that a method of
10 administering a therapeutically effective substance formulation or composition of the
       invention would depend on factors such as the age, weight, and physical condition of the
       patient being treated, and the disease or condition being treated. The skilled worker would,
       thus, be able to select a method of administration optimal for a patient on a case-by-case
       basis.

15

       Angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof can be administered in any suitable
       way, but are typically administered by continuous infusion. Accordingly, increasing or
       decreasing a rate of administration can be accomplished by changing the rate of flow of an
       intravenous drip, changing the concentration of the agent in an intravenous drip, etc.
20 However, the manner in which the rate of administration is changed will depend on the mode
       of administration of the therapeutic. Where the therapeutic is administered transmucosally or
       transdermally, the rate may be increased by changing to a higher-release-rate patch or
       transdermal composition for example. Where the therapeutic is administered orally, the rate
       may be increased by switching to a higher-dose form, administering additional doses, or
25 administering controlled-release dosage forms with a higher rate of release, for example.

       Where the therapeutic is administered by inhalation, the rate may be increased by
       administering additional boluses, a more concentrated bolus, or a faster-release bolus, for
       example. Other modes of administration (Via subcutaneous injection pump, suppository, etc.)
30 can be modulated in analogous fashions, and decreasing the rate of administration can be
       accomplished by doing the opposite of an action that would increase the rate of administration
       of the therapeutic.
                                                                    38

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, wherein said Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof is
       Angiotensin II that is administered at a rate between 0.1 and 200 ng/kg/min, preferably
       between 1 and 100 ng/kg/min, more preferred between 2 and 80 ng/kg/min, even more
       preferred between 5 and 60 ng/kg/min, even more preferred between 10 and 50 ng/kg/min,
       even more preferred between 15 and 40 ng/kg/min most preferred at a rate of 20 ng/kg/min.

       In a specific embodiment of the present disclosure the starting dosage (initial rate) of
10 angiotensin II is 80 ng/kg/min, more preferred 4O ng/kg/min, most preferred 20 ng/kg/min Via

        continuous intravenous infusion.

       In another specific embodiment of the invention for titration of angiotensin II the blood
       pressure response (e.g. mean arterial pressure; MAP) is monitored. Titration of angiotensin II
15 may be carried out every 60 minutes, more preferred every 45 minutes, even more preferred
       every 30 minutes, even more preferred every 15 minutes, even more preferred every 10
       minutes, most preferred every 5 minutes. Angiotensin II titration may be carried out by
       increments of up to 40 ng/kg/min, more preferred up to 20 ng/kg/min, most preferred up to
       15 ng/kg/min as needed to achieve or maintain target blood pressure. In another preferred
20 embodiment the dosage should not exceed 80 ng/kg/min of angiotensin II during the first 3
       hours of treatment. It is most preferred that maintenance doses should not exceed
       40 ng/kg/min andd oses as low as 1.25 ng/kg/min may be used.

       In some embodiments, the patient has an initial mean arterial pressure (MAP) of no more than
25 about 40 mm Hg, about 45 mm Hg, about 50 mm Hg, 55 mm Hg, about 60 mm Hg, about

       65 mm Hg, about 70 mm Hg, or about 75 mm Hg prior to administering the composition. The
       method may comprise measuring a mean atrial blood pressure of the patient and increasing
       the rate of administering angiotensin II if the mean arterial blood pressure is less than about
       40 mm Hg, about 45 mm Hg, about 50 mm Hg, 55 mm Hg, about 60 mm Hg, about
30 65 mm Hg, about 70 mm Hg, or about 75 mm Hg.

       In one embodiment, the patient may be receiving a vasopressor (e.g., a catecholamine, such as
       norepinephrine, a norepinephrine equivalent, epinephrine, dopamine, phenylephrine) or a
                                                                    39

       combination thereof. In some embodiments, the vasopressor is vasopressin (e.g., terlipressin,
       argipressin, desmopressin, felypressin, lypressin, or ornipressin).

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, wherein said angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor thereof, in
       particular Angiotensin II, is administered in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3.

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
10 thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

       developed shock, in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is
       selected from the group comprising an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or
       anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

15 In accordance with the invention the "anti-DPP3 antibody" is an antibody that binds
       specifically to DPP3, an "anti-DPP3 antibody fragment" is a fragment of said anti-DPP3
       antibody, wherein said fragment binds specifically to DPP3. An "anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold"
       is a non-Ig scaffold that binds specifically to DPP3.

20 One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is
       an anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold that
       binds to SEQ ID NO. 1, in particular that binds to SEQ ID NO. 2.

25

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
       thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
       developed shock, , in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3
       is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that exhibits a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of
30 equal or less than 10'7 M.

       In accordance with the present invention, the person skilled in the art is well aware that the
       binding affinity of the herein disclosed DPP3 binder to DPP3 may be measured by various
                                                                   40

       suitable assays known in the art. Respective examples are given below, but these shall be not
       construed as limiting possibilities to measure binding affinity of the herein disclosed DPP3
       binder to DPP3.

      For example, the binding affinity of the DPP3 binder to an epitope may be determined. A
      binding assay may be performed to detect and/or quantitate antibody binding to egg. the
       immunization peptide of the respective binder. For example, this immunization peptide may
      be immobilized upon a solid phase. The test sample (e.g. antibody solution) is passed over the
       immobile immunization peptide, and bound antibody can be detected. For the purposes of the
       present description, the term "solid phase" may be used to include any material or vessel in
10 which or on which the assay may be performed and includes, but is not limited to, porous
       materials, nonporous materials, test tubes, wells, slides, magnetic beads etc.

    Exemplary detection methods:

    -- Label antibody before contacting with solid phase and detect respective label

15  (fluorescence, chemiluminescence, enzymatic etc.).

    -- Use labeled secondary antibody against specific Fc part of sample-antibody. Incubate
         solid phase bound antibody with secondary antibody (e.g. anti human IgG, anti murine
        IgG) and detect respective label (fluorescence, chemiluminescence, enzymatic etc.).

    -- Use a labeled antibody as competitor for solid phase binding (e.g. labeled AK1967).

20  -- Quantify binding affinity by decrease of signal.

       Another method to determine the affinity of antibodies to DPP3, the kinetics of binding of
       DPP3 to immobilized antibody may be determined by means of label-free surface plasmon
       resonance using a Biacore 2000 system (GE Healthcare Europe GmbH, Freiburg, Germany).
25 Reversible immobilization of the antibodies may be performed using an anti-mouse Fc
       antibody covalently coupled in high density to a CMS sensor surface (mouse antibody capture
       kit; GE Healthcare) (Lorenz el al. 2011. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 55(1) .' 16571 73).

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
30 thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

       developed shock, in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is
                                                                   41

       an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monospecific, in one embodiment said inhibitor of
      DPP3 is an antibody or fragment or scaffold that is monoclonal.

      Monospecific antibodies or fragments or non-Ig scaffolds according to the invention are
       antibodies or fragments or non-Ig scaffolds that all have affinity for the same antigen.
      Monoclonal antibodies are monospecific, but monospecific antibodies may also be produced
      by other means than producing them from a common germ cell.

       In a specific embodiment said capture-binder that binds to fiill-length DPP3 specifically
       inhibits less than 50% DPP3 activity in a liquid phase assay, preferably less than 40%, more
10 preferably 30 %. For definition of liquid phase assay see above. In one specific embodiment
      to prevent inhibition of DPP3 the capture-binder should not bind DPP3 in the area around the
       active center and substrate binding region (amino acids 316 -- 669 of SEQ ID No. 1).

       One embodiment of the invention is an angiotensin-receptor-agonist and/ or a precursor
15 thereof for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

       developed shock, in combination with an inhibitor of DPP3, wherein said inhibitor of DPP3 is
       an antibody or fragment or scaffold that binds to fiill-length DPP3 and inhibits activity of
       DPP3 of at least 10%, or at least 50%, more preferred at least 60%, even more preferred more
       than 70 %, even more preferred more than 80 %, even more preferred more than 90 %, even
20 more preferred more than 95 %.

       Inhibition of DPP3 activity in a liquid phase assay by a binder may be determined as
       followed: Possible DPP3 capture-binders are incubated with recombinant or purified native
       DPP3 and specific DPP3 substrates in a liquid phase assay. Preferably, as capture-binder for
25 the ECA is chosen the one with the least inhibitory ability. The capture-binder should inhibit
       DPP3 activity less than 50 %, preferably less than 40 %, preferably less than 30 %. The
       specific liquid phase DPP3 activity assay to determine the inhibitory ability of possible
       capture-binders comprises the following steps:

    0 Incubation of 25 ng/ ml native human DPP3 with 5 ug/ ml of the respective capture-

30  binder and buffer control in 50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7,5 and 100 pM ZIIC12 for 1 hour at

    room temperature.

    0 Addition of the fluorogenic substrate Arg-Arg-BNA (20 pl, 2 mM).
                                                                   42

            o Incubation at 37 oC and monitoring the generation of free BNA in a Twinkle LB 970
                microplate fluorometer (Berthold Technologies GmbH) over 1 hour. Fluorescence of
                BNA is detected by exciting at 340 nm and measuring emission at 410 nm.

            0 Slopes (in RFU/ min) of increasing fluorescence of the different samples are
                calculated. The slope of native human DPP3 with buffer control is appointed as 100 %
                activity. The inhibitory ability of a possible capture-binder is defined as the decrease
                of native human DPP3 activity by incubation with said capture-binder in percent.

       In a liquid phase assay samples of bodily fluids are directly subjected to fluorogenic
       substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-B-NA). Since there are many different amino peptidases in the
10 plasma (Sanderink el al. 1988), it is possible that the used substrate is cleaved by peptidases
       other than DPP3. To circumvent this problem one preferred method of detecting specific
      DPP3 activity is the use of an enzyme capture activity assay.

       In one specific embodiment determination of active DPP3 in an enzyme capture assay
15 comprises the steps:

    0 Contacting said sample with a capture-binder that binds to fiill-length DPP3 but

    preferably inhibits DPP3 activity in a liquid phase assay less than 50%, preferably less

    than 40%, more preferably 30 %. To prevent inhibition of DPP3 the capture-binder

    should not bind DPP3 in the area around the active center and substrate binding region

20  (amino acids 316 -- 669 of SEQ ID No. 1),

    o separating DPP3 bound to said capture binder from bodily fluid sample,

    0 adding substrate of DPP3 to said separated DPP3,

    o quantifying DPP3 activity by measuring the conversion of the substrate of DPP3.

       An "antibody" according to the present invention is a protein including one or more
25 polypeptides substantially encoded by immunoglobulin genes that specifically binds an

       antigen. The recognized immunoglobulin genes include the kappa, lambda, alpha (IgA),
       gamma (IgGl, Ing, IgG3, IgG4), delta (IgD), epsilon (IgE) and mu (IgM) constant region
       genes, as well as the myriad immunoglobulin variable region genes. Full-length
       immunoglobulin light chains are generally about 25 kDa or 214 amino acids in length.

30
                                                                    43

       Full-length immunoglobulin heavy chains are generally about 50 kDa or 446 amino acids in
       length. Light chains are encoded by a variable region gene at the NHg-terrninus (about 110
       amino acids in length) and a kappa or lambda constant region gene at the COOH-terminus.
       Heavy chains are similarly encoded by a variable region gene (about 116 amino acids in
       length) and one of the other constant region genes.

       The basic structural unit of an antibody is generally a tetramer that consists of two identical
       pairs of immunoglobulin chains, each pair having one light and one heavy chain. In each pair,
       the light and heavy chain variable regions bind to an antigen, and the constant regions mediate
10 effector filnctions. Immunoglobulins also eXist in a variety of other forms including, for
       example, FV, Fab, and F(ab')2, as well as bifunctional hybrid antibodies and single chains
       (e.g., Lanzavecchia el al., Eur. J. Immunol. 1 7:105, 198 7; Huston el al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
       USA, 85:5879-5883, 1988; Bird el al., Science 242:423-426, 1988; Hood el al.,
       Immunology, Benjamin, N.Y., 2nd ed, 1984; Hunkapiller and Hood, Nature 323.`15-16,1986).

15

       An immunoglobulin light or heavy chain variable region includes a framework region
       interrupted by three hypervariable regions, also called complementarity determining regions
       (CDR's) (see, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, E. Kabat el al., US.
       Department of Health and Human Services, 1983). As noted above, the CDRs are primarily
20 responsible for binding to an epitope of an antigen. An immune complex is an antibody, such
       as a monoclonal antibody, chimeric antibody, humanized antibody or human antibody, or
       functional antibody fragment, specifically bound to the antigen.

       "Chimeric antibodies" are antibodies whose light and heavy chain genes have been
25 constructed, typically by genetic engineering, from immunoglobulin variable and constant

       region genes belonging to different species. For example, the variable segments of the genes
       from a mouse monoclonal antibody can be joined to human constant segments, such as kappa
       and gamma 1 or gamma 3. In one example, a therapeutic chimeric antibody is thus a hybrid
       protein composed of the variable or antigen-binding domain from a mouse antibody and the
30 constant or effector domain from a human antibody, although other mammalian species can
       be used, or the variable region can be produced by molecular techniques. Methods of making
       chimeric antibodies are well known in the art, e.g., see US. Patent No. 5,807,715. A
       "humanized" immunoglobulin is an immunoglobulin including a human framework region
       and one or more CDRs from a non-human (such as a mouse, rat, or synthetic)
                                                     44

       immunoglobulin. The non-human immunoglobulin providing the CDRs is termed a "donor"
       and the human immunoglobulin providing the framework is termed an "acceptor."

       In one embodiment of the invention, all the CDRs are from the donor immunoglobulin in a
       humanized immunoglobulin. Constant regions need not be present, but if they are, they must
       be substantially identical to human immunoglobulin constant regions, i.e., at least about
       85-90%, such as about 95% or more identical. Hence, all parts of a humanized
       immunoglobulin, except possibly the CDRs, are substantially identical to corresponding parts
       of natural human immunoglobulin sequences.
10 A "humanized antibody" in accordance with the invention is an antibody comprising a
       humanized light chain and a humanized heavy chain immunoglobulin. A humanized antibody
       binds to the same antigen as the donor antibody that provides the CDRs. The acceptor
       framework of a humanized immunoglobulin or antibody may have a limited number of
       substitutions by amino acids taken from the donor framework. Humanized or other
15 monoclonal antibodies can have additional conservative amino acid substitutions which have
       substantially no effect on antigen binding or other immunoglobulin fiinctions. Exemplary
       conservative substitutions are those such as gly, ala; val, ile, leu; asp, glu; asn, gln; ser, thr;
       lys, arg; and phe, tyr. Humanized immunoglobulins can be constructed by means of genetic
       engineering (e.g., see US. Patent No. 5,585,089). A human antibody is an antibody wherein
20 the light and heavy chain genes are of human origin. Human antibodies can be generated
       using methods known in the art. Human antibodies can be produced by immortalizing a
       human B cell secreting the antibody of interest. Immortalization can be accomplished, for
       example, by EBV infection or by fusing a human B cell with a myeloma or hybridoma cell to
       produce a trioma cell. Human antibodies can also be produced by phage display methods (see,
25 e.g., Dower el al., PCT Publication No. W0 91/ 17271; McCafferty el al., PCT Publication
       No. WO 92/001047; and Winter, PCT Publication No. WO 92/20791), or selected from a
       human combinatorial monoclonal antibody library (see the Morphosys website). Human
       antibodies can also be prepared by using transgenic animals carrying a human
       immunoglobulin gene (for example, see Lonberg el al., PCT Publication No. W0 93/ 12227;
30 and Kucherlapati, PCT Publication No. W0 91/ 10741).

       Thus, the anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment in accordance with the
       invention may have the formats known in the art. Examples are human antibodies,
                                                                    45

       monoclonal antibodies, humanized antibodies, chimeric antibodies, CDR--grafted antibodies
       or antibody fragments thereof, but not limited to.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention the anti-DPP3 antibody is a monoclonal antibody or
       a fragment thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the anti-DPP3 antibody or the
       anti-DPP3 antibody fragment is a human or humanized antibody or derived therefrom. In one
       specific embodiment one or more (murine) CDR's are grafted into a human antibody or
       antibody fragment.

10 In a preferred embodiment antibodies according to the present invention are recombinantly
       produced antibodies as e.g. IgG, a typical full-length immunoglobulin, or antibody fragments
       containing at least the F-Variable domain of heavy and/or light chain as e.g. chemically
       coupled antibodies (fragment antigen binding) including but not limited to Fab-fragments
       including Fab minibodies, single chain Fab antibody, monovalent Fab antibody with epitope

15 tags, e.g. Fab-VS SX2; bivalent Fab (mini-antibody) dimerized with the CH3 domain; bivalent
       Fab or multivalent Fab, e.g. formed Via multimerization with the aid of a heterologous
       domain, e.g. Via dimerization of dHLX domains, e.g. Fab-dHLX-FSX2; F(ab`)2-fragments,
       scFV-fragments, multimerized multivalent and/or multispecific scFV-fragments, bivalent
       and/or bispecific diabodies, BITE® (bispecific T-cell engager), trifunctional antibodies,

20 polyvalent antibodies, e.g. from a different class than G; single-domain antibodies, e.g.
       nanobodies derived from camelid or fish immunoglobulines and numerous others.

       In addition to anti-DPP3 antibodies or anti-DPP3 antibody fragments, other biopolymer
       scaffolds, so called non-Ig scaffolds, are well known in the art to complex a target molecule
25 and have been used for the generation of highly target specific biopolymers. Examples are
       aptamers, spiegelmers, anticalins and conotoxins.

       Non-Ig scaffolds with the context of the invention may be protein scaffolds and may be used
       as antibody mimics as they are capable to bind to ligands or antigens. Non-Ig scaffolds may
30 be selected from the group comprising tetranectin-based non-Ig scaffolds (e.g. described in
       US 2010/0028995), fibronectin scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 1266 025; lipocalin-based
       scaffolds (e.g. described in WC 2011/ 154420); ubiquitin scaffolds (e.g. described in
       WO 2011/073214), transferring scaffolds (e.g. described in US 2004/0023334), protein A
       scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 2231860), ankyrin repeat based scaffolds (e.g. described in
                                                                    46

       WO 2010/060748), microprotein (preferably microproteins forming a cystine knot) scaffolds
       (e.g. described in EP 2314308), Fyn SH3 domain based scaffolds (e.g. described in
       WO 2011/023685), EGFR--A-domain based scaffolds (e.g. described in WO 2005/040229)
       and Kunitz domain based scaffolds (e.g. described in EP 1941867). Non-Ig scaffolds may be
       peptide or oligonucleotide aptamers. Aptamers are usually created by selecting them from a
       large random sequence pool and are either short strands of oligonucleotides (DNA, RNA or
       XNA, Xu er al. 2010, Deng er al. 2014) or short variable peptide domains attached to a
       protein scaffold (Li er al. 2011).

10 In an alternative embodiment the anti-DPP3 antibody format is selected from the group
       comprising FV fragment, scFV fragment, Fab fragment, scFab fragment, F(ab)2 fragment and
       scFV-Fc Fusion protein. In another preferred embodiment the antibody format is selected from
       the group comprising scFab fragment, Fab fragment, scFV fragment and bioavailability
       optimized conjugates thereof, such as PEGylated fragments.

15

       With the context of the invention, the term "antibody" generally comprises monoclonal and
       polyclonal antibodies and binding fragments thereof, in particular Fc-fragments as well as so
       called "single-chain-antibodies" (Bird el al. 1988), chimeric, humanized, in particular
       CDR--grafted antibodies, and di- or tetrabodies (Holliger el al. 1993). Also comprised are
20 immunoglobulin-like proteins that are selected through techniques including, for example,
       phage display to specifically bind to the molecule of interest contained in a sample. In this
       context the term "specific binding" refers to antibodies raised against the molecule of interest
       or a fragment thereof. An antibody is considered to be specific, if its affinity towards the
       molecule of interest or the aforementioned fragment thereof is at least preferably 50-fold
25 higher, more preferably IOO-fold higher, most preferably at least IOOO-fold higher than
       towards other molecules comprised in a sample containing the molecule of interest. It is well
       known in the art how to make antibodies and to select antibodies with a given specificity.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention said anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody
30 fragment binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO.: 2, wherein said epitope is

       comprised in a DPP3 protein or functional derivative thereof is a monoclonal antibody or a
       monoclonal antibody fragment thereof. In one embodiment of the invention the anti-DPP3
       antibody or the anti-DPP3 antibody fragment binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO.:
       2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or filnctional derivative thereof is a
                                                                    47

       human or humanized antibody or derived therefrom or humanized antibody fragment or
        derived therefrom.

       In one specific embodiment one or more (murine) CDR's are grafted into a human antibody
       or antibody fragment.

       In another aspect of the invention, the provided subject matter is a human CDR--grafted anti-
       DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof that is directed to and binding to an
       epitope according to SEQ ID NO.: 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or
10 a filnctional derivative thereof, and wherein said human CDR--grafted anti-DPP3 antibody or
       anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof comprises an antibody heavy chain variable region
       (H chain) comprising:
       SEQ ID NO.: 4
       and/or further comprises an antibody light chain variable region (L chain) comprising:
15 SEQ ID NO.: 5.

       Further subject matter of the present invention in another aspect is a human CDR--grafted anti-
       DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof that is directed to and binding to an
       epitope according to SEQ ID NO.: 2, wherein said epitope is comprised in a DPP3 protein or
20 a filnctional derivative thereof, and wherein the said human CDR--grafted anti-DPP3 antibody
       or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof comprises an antibody heavy chain variable region
       (H chain) comprising:
       SEQ ID NO.: 11
       and/or further comprises an antibody light chain variable region (L chain) comprising:
25 SEQ ID NO.: 12.

       In one specific embodiment of the invention subject matter of the present invention is a
       human monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody or monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody fragment thereof
       that is directed to and binding to an epitope according to SEQ ID NO.: 2, wherein said epitope
30 is comprised in a DPP3 protein or a filnctional derivative thereof, and wherein the heavy
       chain comprises at least one CDR of:
       SEQ ID NO.: 6, SEQ ID NO.: 7 or SEQ ID NO.: 8
       and wherein the light chain comprises at least one CDR of:
       SEQ ID NO.: 9, KVS or SEQ ID NO.: 10.
                                                                    48

       The amount of DPP3 protein and/ or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject
       may be determined by different methods, e.g. immunoassays, acitiVity assays, mass
       spectrometric methods etc.
       The amount of DPP3 protein and/ or DPP3 activity in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject
       may be determined for example by one of the following methods:

            1. Luminescence immunoassay for the quantification of DPP3 protein concentrations
                 (LIA) (Rehfeld el al. 2019 JALM 3 (6) 3943-953).

10 The LIA is a one-step chemiluminescence sandwich immunoassay that uses white high-
       binding polystyrene microtiter plates as solid phase. These plates are coated with monoclonal
       anti-DPP3 antibody AK2555 (capture antibody). The tracer anti-DPP3 antibody AK2553 is
       labeled with MA70-acridinium-NHS-ester and used at a concentration of 20 ng per well.
       Twenty microliters of samples (e.g. serum, heparin-plasma, citrate-plasma or EDTA-plasma

15 derived from patients' blood) and calibrators are pipetted into coated white microtiter plates.
       After adding the tracer antibody AK2553, the microtiter plates are incubated for 3 h at room
       temperature and 600 rpm. Unbound tracer is then removed by 4 washing steps (350 "L per
       well). Remaining chemiluminescence is measured for 1s per well by using a microtiter plate
       luminometer. The concentration of DPP3 is determined with a 6-point calibration curve.

20 Calibrators and samples are preferably run in duplicate.

            2. Enzyme capture activity assay for the quantification of DPP3 activity (ECA) (RehZeld
                  el al. 2019 JALM 3(6).`943-953).

       The ECA is a DPP3-specific activity assay that uses black high-binding polystyrene microtiter
25 plates as solid phase. These plates are coated with monoclonal anti-DPP3 antibody AK2555

       (capture antibody). Twenty microliters of samples (e.g. serum, heparin-plasma,
       citrate-plasma, EDTA-plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and urine) and calibrators are pipetted into
       coated black microtiter plates. After adding assay buffer (200 HL), the microtiter plates are
       incubated for 2 h at 22°C and 600 rpm. DPP3 present in the samples is immobilized by
30 binding to the capture antibody. Unbound sample components are removed by 4 washing
       steps (350 "L per well). The specific activity of immobilized DPP3 is measured by the
                                                                    49

       addition of the fluorogenic substrate, Arg-Arg-B-Naphthylamide (ArgZ-BNA), in reaction
       buffer followed by incubation at 37 0C for 1 h. DPP3 specifically cleaves ArgZ-BNA into
       Arg-Arg dipeptide and fluorescent B-naphthylamine. Fluorescence is measured with a
       fluorometer using an excitation wavelength of 340 nm and emission is detected at 410 nm.
       The activity of DPP3 is determined with a 6-point calibration curve. Calibrators and samples
       are preferably run in duplicates.

            3. Liquid-phase assay for the quantification of DPP3 activity (LAA) (modified from
                  Jones el al., Analytical Biochemistry, 1982).

10 The LAA is a liquid phase assay that uses black non-binding polystyrene microtiter plates to
       measure DPP3 actiVity. Twenty microliter of samples (e.g. serum, heparin-plasma, citrate-
       plasma) and calibrators are pipetted into non-binding black microtiter plates. After addition of
       fluorogenic substrate, ArgZ-BNA, in assay buffer (200 uL), the initial BNA fluorescence
       (T=O) is measured in a fluorimeter using an excitation wavelength of 340 nm and emission is

15 detected at 410 nm. The plate is then incubated at 37 0C for 1 hour. The final fluorescence of
       (T=60) is measured. The difference between final and initial fluorescence is calculated. The
       actiVity of DPP3 is determined with a 6-point calibration curve. Calibrators and samples are
       preferably run in duplicates.

20 A variety of immunoassays are known and may be used for the assays and methods of the
       present invention, these include: radioimmunoassays ("RIA"), homogeneous enzyme-
       multiplied immunoassays ("EMIT"), enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assays ("ELISA"),
       apoenzyme reactivation immunoassay ("ARIS"), chemiluminescence- and fluorescence-
       immunoassays, LumineX-based bead arrays, protein microarray assays, and rapid test formats

25 such as for instance immunochromatographic strip tests ("dipstick immunoassays") and
       immuno-chromotography assays.

       In one embodiment of the invention such an assay is a sandwich immunoassay using any kind
       of detection technology including but not restricted to enzyme label, chemiluminescence
       label, electrochemiluminescence label, preferably a fully automated assay. In one embodiment
30 of the invention such an assay is an enzyme labeled sandwich assay. Examples of automated
       or fillly automated assay comprise assays that may be used for one of the following systems:
                                                                    50

       Roche Elecsys®, Abbott Architect®, Siemens Centauer®, Brahms Kryptor®, Biomerieux
       Vidas®, Alere Triage®

       In one embodiment of the invention it may be a so-called POC-test (point-of--care), that is a
       test technology which allows performing the test within less than 1 hour near the patient
       without the requirement of a fully automated assay system. One example for this technology
       is the immunochromatographic test technology.

       In a specific embodiment of the invention said POC-test combines the measurement of more
       than one analyte at the same time. In another specific embodiment of the invention said
       analyte is selected from the group of DPP3 and Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof. In a
10 very specific embodiment of the invention said POC-test combines the measurement of DPP3
        and mature ADM.

       In one embodiment of the invention at least one of the binders is labeled in order to be
        detected.

       In a preferred embodiment said label is selected from the group comprising chemiluminescent
15 label, enzyme label, fluorescence label, radioiodine label.

       The assays can be homogenous or heterogeneous assays, competitive and non-competitive
       assays. In one embodiment, the assay is in the form of a sandwich assay, which is a
       non-competitive immunoassay, wherein the molecule to be detected and/or quantified is
       bound to a first antibody and to a second antibody. The first antibody may be bound to a solid
20 phase, e.g. a bead, a surface of a well or other container, a chip or a strip, and the second
       antibody is an antibody which is labeled, e.g. with a dye, with a radioisotope, or a reactive or
       catalytically active moiety. The amount of labeled antibody bound to the analyte is then
       measured by an appropriate method. The general composition and procedures involved with
       "sandwich assays" are well-established and known to the skilled person (The Immunoassay
25 Handbook, Ed. David Wild, Elsevier LTD, Oxford; 3rd ed. (A/[av 2005), ISBN--13.` 978-
       0080445267; Hullschig C el al., Curr Opin Chem Biol. 2006 Feb;10(1).'4-10. PMID.`
        16376134).

       In another embodiment the assay comprises two capture molecules, preferably antibodies
       which are both present as dispersions in a liquid reaction mixture, wherein a first labelling
30 component is attached to the first capture molecule, wherein said first labelling component is
       part of a labelling system based on fluorescence- or chemiluminescence-quenching or
       amplification, and a second labelling component of said marking system is attached to the
                                                                    51

       second capture molecule, so that upon binding of both capture molecules to the analyte a
       measurable signal is generated that allows for the detection of the formed sandwich
       complexes in the solution comprising the sample.

       In another embodiment, said labeling system comprises rare earth cryptates or rare earth
       chelates in combination with fluorescence dye or chemiluminescence dye, in particular a dye
       of the cyanine type.

       In the context of the present invention, fluorescence based assays comprise the use of dyes,
       which may for instance be selected from the group comprising FAM (5-or
       6-carboxyfluorescein), VIC, NED, Fluorescein, Fluoresceinisothiocyanate (FITC),
10 IRD-700/800, Cyanine dyes, auch as CY3, CYS, CY3.5, CY5.5, Cy7, Xanthen, 6-Carboxy-
       2',4',7',4,7-hexachlorofluorescein (HEX), TET, 6-Carboxy-4',5'-dichloro-2',7'-
       dimethodyfluorescein (JOE), N,N,N',N'-Tetramethy1-6-carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA),
       6-Carboxy-X-rhodamine (ROX), 5-Carboxyrhodamine-6G (R6G5), 6-carboxyrhodamine-6G
       (RG6), Rhodamine, Rhodamine Green, Rhodamine Red, Rhodamine 110, BODIPY dyes,
15 such as BODIPY TMR, Oregon Green, Coumarines such as Umbelliferone, Benzimides, such
       as Hoechst 33258; Phenanthridines, such as Texas Red, Yakima Yellow, Alexa Fluor, PET,
       Ethidiumbromide, Acridinium dyes, Carbazol dyes, Phenoxazine dyes, Porphyrine dyes,
       Polymethin dyes, and the like.

       In the context of the present invention, chemiluminescence based assays comprise the use of
20 dyes, based on the physical principles described for chemiluminescent materials in (1%

       Olhmer, Encyclopedia of chemical technology, 4th ed, executive editor, J. I. Kroschwilz;
       editor, M Howe-Grcmt, John Wiley & Sons, 1993, vol.15, p. 518-562, incorporated herein by
       reference, including citations 011 pages 551-562). Preferred chemiluminescent dyes are
        acridiniumesters.

25 As mentioned herein, an "assay" or "diagnostic assay" can be of any type applied in the field
       of diagnostics. Such an assay may be based on the binding of an analyte to be detected to one
       or more capture probes with a certain affinity. Concerning the interaction between capture
       molecules and target molecules or molecules of interest, the affinity constant is preferably
       greater than 108 M'l.

30 DPP3 actiVity can be measured by detection of cleavage products of DPP3 specific substrates.
       Known peptide hormone substrates include Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1
       and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin, dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH (Adrenocorticotropic
                                                                    52

       hormone) and MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormone; Abramié el al. 2000, Barsun el al.
       2007, Dhanda er a1. 2008). The cleavage of mentioned peptide hormones as well as other
       untagged oligopeptides (e.g. Ala-Ala-Ala-Ala, Dhanda el al. 2008) can be monitored by
       detection of the respective cleavage products. Detection methods include, but are not limited
       to, HPLC analysis (e.g. Lee & Snyder 1982), mass spectrometry (e.g. Abramié er a1. 2000),
       Hl-NMR analysis (e.g. Vandenberg el al. 1985), capillary zone electrophoresis (CE, e.g.
       Barsun er a1. 2007), thin layer chromatography (e.g. Dhanda el al. 2008) or reversed phase
       chromatography (e.g. Mazocco er a1. 200m.

10 Detection of fluorescence due to hydrolysis of fluorogenic substrates by DPP3 is a standard
       procedure to monitor DPP3 actiVity. Those substrates are specific di- or tripeptides (Arg-Arg,
       Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala, Leu-Gly, Lys-
       Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-Phe) coupled to a fluorophore. Fluorophores include but are not
       limited to B-naphtylamide (2-naphty1amide, BNA, 2NA), 4-methoxy-B-naphty1amide

15 (4-methoxy-2-naphty1amide) and 7-amido-4-methy1coumarin (AMC, MCA, Abramié el al.
       2000, Ohkubo er a1. 1999). Cleavage of these fluorogenic substrates leads to the release of
       fluorescent B-naphtylamine or 7-amino-4-methy1coumarin respectively. In a liquid phase
       assay or an ECA substrate and DPP3 are incubated in for example a 96 well plate format and
       fluorescence is measured using a fluorescence detector (Ellis & Nuenke 1967). Additionally,

20 DPP3 carrying samples can be immobilized and divided on a gel by electrophoresis, gels
       stained with fluorogenic substrate (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA) and Fast Garnet GBC and fluorescent
       protein bands detected by a fluorescence reader (Ohkubo el al. 1999). The same peptides
       (Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala,
       Leu-Gly, Lys-Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-Phe) can be coupled to chromophores, such as

25 p-nitroanilide diacetate. Detection of color change due to hydrolysis of chromogenic
       sub strates can be used to monitor DPP3 activity.

       Another option for the detection of DPP3 actiVity is a Protease-GloTM Assay (commercially
       available at Promega). In this embodiment of said method DPP3 specific di- or tripeptides
30 (Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe, Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu-Ala,
       Leu-Gly, Lys-Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-Phe) are coupled to aminoluciferin. Upon cleavage
       by DPP3, aminoluciferin is released and serves as a substrate for a coupled luciferase reaction
       that emits detectable luminescence.
                                                                    53

       In a preferred embodiment DPP3 actiVity is measured by addition of the fluorogenic substrate
       Arg-Arg-BNA and monitoring fluorescence in real time.

       In a specific embodiment of said method for determining active DPP3 in a bodily fluid
       sample of a subject said capture binder reactive with DPP3 is immobilized on a solid phase.

       The test sample is passed over the immobile binder, and DPP3, if present, binds to the binder
       and is itself immobilized for detection. A substrate may then be added, and the reaction
       product may be detected to indicate the presence or amount of DPP3 in the test sample. For
10 the purposes of the present description, the term "solid phase" may be used to include any
       material or vessel in which or on which the assay may be performed and includes, but is not
       limited to: porous materials, nonporous materials, test tubes, wells, slides, agarose resins
       (e.g. Sepharose from GE Healthcare Life Sciences), magnetic particals (e.g. DynabeadsTM or
       PierceTM magnetic beads from Thermo Fisher Scientific), etc.

15

       Binders of protein or peptide origin (e.g. antibody, antibody fragments, non-Ig scaffold) are
       immobilized onto the solid phase by methods comprising: physical adsorption (e.g. by
       electrostatic interaction or hydrophobic interaction), bioafflnity immobilization (e.g. avidin-
       biotin, protein A/ G/ L, His-tag and Ni2+-NTA, GST-tag and gluthatione, DNA hybridization,
20 aptamers), covalent bond (e.g. amine and N--hydroxysuccinimide) or a combination of said
       immobilization methods (Kim & Herr 2013). Binders of oligonucleotide origin
       (e.g. aptamers) may be immobilized onto the solid phase by utilization of the (strept)aVidin-
       biotin system (Muller el al. 2012, Deng el al. 2014).

25 In a specific embodiment of said method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid
       sample of a subject said separation step is a washing step that removes ingredients of the
       sample that are not bound to said capture-binder from the captured DPP3. That separation
       step can be any other step that separates DPP3 bound to said capture-binder from the
       ingredients of said bodily fluid sample.

30

       In a specific embodiment of said method for determining DPP3 activity in a bodily fluid
       sample of a subject said DPP3 substrate conversion by immobilized DPP3 is measured
       (detected) by a method selected from the group comprising: fluorescence of fluorogenic
       substrates (e.g. Arg-Arg-BNA, Arg-Arg-AMC), color change of chromogenic substrates,
                                                                54

    luminescence of substrates coupled to aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTM Assay), mass
    spectrometry, HPLC/ FPLC (reversed phase chromatography, size exclusion
    chromatography), thin layer chromatography, capillary zone electrophoresis, gel
    electrophoresis followed by activity staining (immobilized, active DPP3) or western blot
    (cleavage products).

       In a specific embodiment of said method for determining DPP3 acitiVity in a bodily fluid
       sample of a subject said substrate may be selected from the group comprising:
       Leu--enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, endomorphin 1 and 2, valorphin, B-casomorphin,
10 dynorphin, proctolin, ACTH and MSH, or di- and tri-peptides coupled to a fluorophore, a
       chromophore or aminoluciferin (Promega Protease-GloTM Assay). Di- or tripeptides that are
       cleaved by DPP3 include, but are not limited to, Arg-Arg, Ala-Ala, Ala-Arg, Ala-Phe,
       Asp-Arg, Gly-Ala, Gly-Arg, Gly-Phe, Leu--Ala, Leu--Gly, Lys-Ala, Phe-Arg, Suc-Ala-Ala-
       Phe. Fluorophores include but are not limited to B-naphtylamide (2-naphty1amide, BNA,
15 2NA), 4-methoxy-B-naphty1amide (4-methoxy-2-naphty1amide) and 7-amido-4-
       methylcoumarin (AMC, MCA; Abramic et a1. 2000, Ohkubo et a1. 1999). Cleavage of these
       fluorogenic substrates leads to the release of fluorescent B-naphtylamine or 7-amino--4-
       methylcoumarin respectively. Chromophores include but are not limited to p-nitroanilide
       diacetate (pNA). The hydrolysis of a peptide-pNA bond in the chromogenic substrates results
20 in the release of pNA which in turn changes color. Thus, the change in absorbance (DA/min)
       is directly proportional to the enzymatic activity. Using the Protease-GloTM Assay from
       Promega, upon cleavage by DPP3, aminoluciferin is released and serves as a substrate for a
       coupled luciferase reaction that emits detectable luminescence.

25 Subject-matter of the present invention is also a method for prognosing an outcome and/or the
       risk of an adverse event in a subject that has developed refractory shock, wherein said method
       is comprising the steps:

    0 determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

30  0 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

    0 correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said subject,

    wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an enhanced risk

    of said adverse events or,
                                                            55

    o correlating said level of DPP3 with success of a therapy or intervention in said subject,
         wherein a level below a certain threshold is predictive for a success of therapy or
          intervention.

       In the context of the present invention, the term "prognosis" denotes a prediction of how a
       patient`s medical condition will progress. This may include an estimation of the chance of
       recovery or the chance of an adverse event for said patient. Adverse event is defined as organ
       dysfunction or mortality. Organ dysfunction is defined as renal decline, cardiac dysfunction or
       liver dysfunction.
10 Further embodiments of the present invention are:

    1. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
        into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:

15  0 determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

    0 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

    wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as having

    refractory shock if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined

    threshold.

20

    2. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 1, wherein said

    shock is selected from the group comprising shock due to hypovolemia, cardiogenic

    shock, obstructive shock and distributive shock, in particular cardiogenic shock or

25  septic shock.

    3. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
        into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 1 and 2, wherein

30  o in case of cardiogenic shock said subject may have suffered an acute coronary

    syndrome (e.g. acute myocardial infarction) or wherein said subject has heart

    failure (e.g. acute decompensated heart failure), myocarditis, arrhythmia,

    cardiomyopathy, valvular heart disease, aortic dissection with acute aortic

    stenosis, traumatic chordal rupture or massive pulmonary embolism or
                   56

    o in case of hypovolemic shock said subject may have suffered a hemorrhagic

    disease including gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g.

    ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, tumor eroding into a major blood vessel)

    and spontaneous bleeding in the setting of anticoagulant use or a non-

    hemorrhagic disease including vomiting, diarrhea, renal loss, skin

    losses/insensible losses (e.g. bums, heat stroke) or third-space loss in the

    setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal obstruction, trauma. or

    o in case of obstructive shock said patient may have suffered a cardiac

    tamponade, tension pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism or aortic stenosis, or

10  o in case of distributive shock said patient may have septic shock, neurogenic

    shock, anaphylactic shock or shock due to adrenal crisis.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiments 1 to 3, wherein said

15  method is used for initiation and/or termination and/ or stratification and/or guidance

    of treatment.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 4,

20  wherein a treatment is initiated and/or maintained and/or withheld and/ or terminated

    if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 5, wherein said

25  treatment is selected from the group of vasopressors, Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists

    and/or precursors thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3 activity and anti-adrenomedullin

    antibodies or anti-adrenomedullin antibody fragments.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

30  into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 6,

    wherein either the level of DPP3 protein and/or the level of active DPP3 is determined

    and compared to a predetermined threshold.
                                                       57

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 7,
    wherein the level of DPP3 is determined by contacting said sample of bodily fluid
    with a capture binder that binds specifically to DPP3.

                A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
                into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 8, wherein said
                capture binder for determining the level of DPP3 may be selected from the group of
                antibody, antibody fragment or non-IgG scaffold.

10

            10. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
                into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiments 8 to 9, wherein said
                capture binder is an antibody.

15  11. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 8 to 10,

    wherein said capture binder is a monoclonal antibody.

    12. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

20  into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 11,

    wherein said sample of bodily fluid is selected from the group of whole blood, plasma,

    and serum.

    13 . A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

25  into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 12,

    wherein said method of diagnosing or predicting is conducted at least twice.

    14. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 13,

30  wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof

    and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued when the level of

    DPP3 in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with

    vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is above

    said predetermined threshold.
                              58

    15. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
        into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 13,
        wherein a treatment with vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of
        DPP3 in said sample is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with
        Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the
        DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is
        below said predetermined threshold.

10  16. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiments 14 to 15, wherein in

    addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and

    wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is

    initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof

15  in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-

    ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the

    said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said

    predetermined threshold.

20  17. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 14, wherein

    treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment and/or

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the

    DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or

25  fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and said determined level

    of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

    18. Vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that

    has developed shock, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily

30  fluid of said subject that is below a predetermined threshold, when determined by a

    method according to any of embodiments 1 -- 17.

    19. Vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that
        has developed shock according to embodiment 18, wherein said vasopressor is
                                                      59

    selected from the group comprising dopamine, norepinephrine, a norepinephrine
    equivalent, epinephrine, phenylephrine and vasopressin.

    20. Vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that
        has developed shock according to embodiment 18 or 19, wherein said vasopressor is
         administered to said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.

    21. Vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that

    has developed shock according to any of embodiments 18 to 20, wherein said subject

10  has a blood pressure of equal or less than 65mm Hg.

    22. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

    runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3

    in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject that is above a predetermined threshold

15  when determined by a method according to any of embodiments 1 -- 17.

    23. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 22, wherein the

    inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is selected from the group comprising anti-DPP3

20  antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

    24. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiments 22 and 23,

    wherein said inhibitor has a minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than

25  10'7 M.

            25. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either
                 runs into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 22 to
                 24, wherein the inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is an antibody.

30

            26. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either
                 runs into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 22 to
                 25, wherein said inhibitor is an antibody that is monoclonal.
                                                           6O

    27. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either
        runs into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 22 to
        26, wherein said inhibitor is a monoclonal antibody, wherein the complementarity
         determining regions (CDR's) in the heavy chain comprises the sequences: SEQ ID
        NO.: 7, SEQ ID NO.: 8 and/ or SEQ ID NO.: 9 and the complementarity determining
        regions (CDR's) in the light chain comprises the sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 10, KVS
         and/or SEQ ID NO.: 11.

    28. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

10  runs into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 22 to

    27, wherein said inhibitor is a humanized monoclonal antibody or humanized

    monoclonal antibody fragment, wherein the heavy chain comprises the sequence: SEQ

    ID NO.: 12 and wherein the light chain comprises the sequence: SEQ ID NO.: 13.

15  29. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 22 to

    28, wherein said inhibitor is administered in combination with an Angiotensin-

    Receptor-Agonist and/or precursor thereof.

20  30. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 29, wherein said

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or precursor thereof is selected from the group

    comprising angiotensin I, angiotensin II, angiotensin III, angiotensin IV, in particular

    angiotensin II.

25

    31. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the

    DPP3 activity for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock

    or that has developed shock, wherein the treatment with said Angiotensin-Receptor-

    Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated

30  and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is above a certain

    threshold and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated

    if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.
                                                           61

    32. Vasopressor for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or
        that has developed shock, wherein the treatment with said vasopressor is initiated
        and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject is
        below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-
        Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is withheld
        and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is below said predetermined
         threshold.

    33. Vasopressor for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or

10  that has developed shock according to embodiment 32, and wherein in addition the

    level of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment

    with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or

    continued when the level of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is

    above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or

15  anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined

    level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined

    threshold.

    34. Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the

20  DPP3 activity for use in the treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock

    or that has developed shock according to embodiment 31, and wherein in addition the

    level of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment

    with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or

    continued when the level of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is

25  above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or

    anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined

    level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined

    threshold.

30  35. Anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment for use in the treatment of shock

    in a subject that either runs into shock or that has developed shock according to

    embodiments 33-34, wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM

    antibody and/or Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or

    inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-
                                                      62

    adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and
    said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

    36. A method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
        developed shock, the method comprising administering vasopressor to said subject,
        wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject
        that is below a predetermined threshold, when determined by a method according to
        any of embodiments 1 -- 17.

10  37. A method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiment 35, the method comprising administering

    vasopressor to said subject,

    wherein said vasopressor is selected from the group comprising dopamine,

    norepinephrine, a norepinephrine equivalent, epinephrine, phenylephrine and

15  vasopressin.

    38. A method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 35-36, the method comprising

    administering vasopressor to said subject, wherein said vasopressor is administered to

20  said subject in a pharmaceutical formulation.

    39. A method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 35-37, the method comprising

    administering vasopressor to said subject,

25  wherein said subject has a blood pressure of equal or less than 65mm Hg.

    40. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock, the method comprising administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to

    said subject, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of

30  said subject that is above a predetermined threshold when determined by a method

    according to any of embodiments 1 -- 17.

    41. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
         developed shock according to embodiment 39, the method comprising administering
                                                       63

    an inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein the inhibitor of the activity of
    DPP3 is selected from the group comprising anti-DPP3 antibody or anti-DPP3
    antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

    42. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
         developed shock according to embodiments 39-40, the method comprising
         administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor has a
        minimum binding affinity to DPP3 of equal or less than 10'7 M.

10  43. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 39-41, the method comprising

    administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein the inhibitor of the

    activity of DPP3 is an antibody.

15  44. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 39-42, the method comprising

    administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is an

    antibody that is monoclonal.

20  45. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 39-43, the method comprising

    administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is a

    monoclonal antibody, wherein the complementarity determining regions (CDR's) in

    the heavy chain comprises the sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 7, SEQ ID NO.: 8 and/ or

25  SEQ ID NO.: 9 and the complementarity determining regions (CDR's) in the light

    chain comprises the sequences: SEQ ID NO.: 10, KVS and/or SEQ ID NO.: 11.

    46. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 39-44, the method comprising

30  administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is a

    humanized monoclonal antibody or humanized monoclonal antibody fragment,

    wherein the heavy chain comprises the sequence: SEQ ID NO.: 12 and wherein the

    light chain comprises the sequence: SEQ ID NO.: 13.
                                            64

    47. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
         developed shock according to embodiments 39-45, the method comprising
         administering an inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is
         administered in combination with an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or precursors
         thereof.

    48. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 39-46, the method comprising

10  administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said Angiotensin-

    Receptor-Agonist and/ or precursors thereof is selected from the group comprising

    angiotensin I, angiotensin II, angiotensin III, angiotensin IV, in particular angiotensin

    11.

15  49. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 39-47, the method comprising

    administering Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or

    inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein the treatment with said

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated

20  and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is above a certain

    threshold and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated

    if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

    50. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

25  developed shock according to embodiments 35-38, the method comprising

    administering vasopressor to said subject, wherein the treatment with said

    vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of

    bodily fluid of said subject is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment

    with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of

30  the DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3

    is below said predetermined threshold.

    51. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
        developed shock according to embodiment 49, the method comprising administering
                                                       65

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitor of DPP3
    activity to said subject, and wherein in addition the level of Pro--adrenomedullin or
    fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody
    or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-
    adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or
    wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is
    withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
    fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

10  52. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiment 50, the method comprising administering

    vasopressor to said subject, and wherein in addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin

    or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM

    antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level

15  of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold

    and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody

    fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-

    adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

20  53. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiment 51 and 52, the method comprising

    administering anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment to said subject,

    wherein in addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is

    determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM

25  antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin

    or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a

    treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld

    and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments

    thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

30

            54. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
                 developed shock according to embodiments 51 to 53, the method comprising
                 administering anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment to said subject,
                wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody and/or
                                                       66

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the
    DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or
    fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and said determined level
    of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

    With the above context, the following consecutively numbered embodiments provide further
    specific aspects of the invention:

    1. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

10  into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:

    0 determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

    0 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

            wherein said subject is predicted to run into refractory shock or is diagnosed as

15          having refractory shock if said determined level of DPP3 is above said

            predetermined threshold.

    2. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to embodimentl, wherein said shock

20  is selected from the group comprising shock due to hypovolemia, cardiogenic shock,

    obstructive shock and distributive shock, in particular cardiogenic shock or septic

    shock.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

25  into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 1 and 2, wherein

    in case of cardiogenic shock said subject may have suffered an acute coronary

    syndrome (e.g. acute myocardial infarction) or wherein said subject has heart failure

    (e.g. acute decompensated heart failure), myocarditis, arrhythmia, cardiomyopathy,

30  valvular heart disease, aortic dissection with acute aortic stenosis, traumatic chordal

    rupture or massive pulmonary embolism or

    in case of hypovolemic shock said subject may have suffered a hemorrhagic disease

    including gastrointestinal bleed, trauma, vascular etiologies (e.g. ruptured abdominal

    aortic aneurysm, tumor eroding into a major blood vessel) and spontaneous bleeding
                                                       67

    in the setting of anticoagulant use or a non-hemorrhagic disease including vomiting,
    diarrhea, renal loss, skin losses/insensible losses (e.g. burns, heat stroke) or third-space
    loss in the setting of pancreatitis, cirrhosis, intestinal obstruction, trauma. or
    in case of obstructive shock said patient may have suffered a cardiac tamponade,
    tension pneumothoraX, pulmonary embolism or aortic stenosis, or
    in case of distributive shock said patient may have septic shock, neurogenic shock,
    anaphylactic shock or shock due to adrenal crisis.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

10  into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiments 1 to 3, wherein said

    method is used for initiation and/or termination and/ or stratification and/or guidance

    of treatment.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

15  into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 4,

    wherein a treatment is initiated and/or maintained and/or withheld and/ or terminated

    if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

20  into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 5, wherein said

    treatment is selected from the group of vasopressors, Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists

    and/or precursors thereof, inhibitors of the DPP3 activity and anti-adrenomedullin

    antibodies or anti-adrenomedullin antibody fragments.

25  A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 6,

    wherein either the level of DPP3 protein and/or the level of active DPP3 is determined

    and compared to a predetermined threshold, wherein the level of DPP3 is determined

    by contacting said sample of bodily fluid with a capture binder that binds specifically

30  to DPP3.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs
    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 7,
    wherein a treatment with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof
                                                       68

    and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated and/or continued when the level of
    DPP3 in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with
    vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated if said determined level of DPP3 is above
    said predetermined threshold.

    A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

    into shock or that has developed shock according to any of embodiments 1 to 7,

    wherein a treatment with vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of

    DPP3 in said sample is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with

10  Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the

    DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3 is

    below said predetermined threshold.

    10. A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

15  into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 8, wherein in

    addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is determined and

    wherein treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is

    initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof

    in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-

20  ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the

    said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said

    predetermined threshold.

    11 . A method for predicting or diagnosing a refractory shock in a subject that either runs

25  into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 8, wherein treatment

    with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment and/or Angiotensin-

    Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is

    initiated and/or continued if the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in

    said sample is above a certain threshold and said determined level of DPP3 is above

30  said predetermined threshold of DPP3.

    12. Vasopressor for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that
        has developed shock, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily
                                                      69

    fluid of said subject that is below a predetermined threshold, when determined by a
    method according to any of embodiments 1 -- 10.

    13. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either
        runs into shock or that has developed shock, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3
        in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject that is above a predetermined threshold
        when determined by a method according to any of embodiments 1 -- 10, wherein the
        inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 is selected from the group comprising anti-DPP3
        antibody or anti-DPP3 antibody fragment or anti-DPP3 non-Ig scaffold.

10

            14. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either
                runs into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment13, wherein said
                inhibitor is administered in combination with an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/or
                precursor thereof.

15

    15. Inhibitor of the activity of DPP3 for use in therapy of shock in a subject that either

    runs into shock or that has developed shock according to embodiment 14, wherein said

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or precursor thereof is selected from the group

    comprising angiotensin I, angiotensin II, angiotensin III, angiotensin IV, in particular

20  angiotensin II.

    16. A method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock, the method comprising administering vasopressor to said subject,

    wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject

25  that is below a predetermined threshold, when determined by a method according to

    any of embodiments 1 -- 10.

    17. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock, the method comprising administering inhibitor of DPP3 activity to

30  said subject, wherein said subject has a level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of

    said subject that is above a predetermined threshold when determined by a method

    according to any of embodiments 1 -- 10.
                                                           70

    18. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
        developed shock according to embodiment 17, the method comprising administering
        an inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein said inhibitor is administered in
        combination with an Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonist and/ or a precursor thereof.

    19. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 16-17, the method comprising

    administering Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or

    inhibitor of DPP3 activity to said subject, wherein the treatment with said

10  Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/or inhibitors of the DPP3 activity is initiated

    and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of said subject is above a certain

    threshold and/or wherein a treatment with vasopressors is withheld and/ or terminated

    if said determined level of DPP3 is above said predetermined threshold.

15  20. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiments 16-17, the method comprising

    administering vasopressor to said subject, wherein the treatment with said

    vasopressors is initiated and/or continued when the level of DPP3 in a sample of

    bodily fluid of said subject is below a certain threshold and/or wherein a treatment

20  with Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitors of

    the DPP3 activity is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of DPP3

    is below said predetermined threshold.

    21. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

25  developed shock according to embodiment 18, the method comprising administering

    Angiotensin-Receptor-Agonists and/ or precursors thereof and/or inhibitor of DPP3

    activity to said subject, and wherein in addition the level of Pro--adrenomedullin or

    fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody

    or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-

30  adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or

    wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is

    withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or

    fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.
                              71

    22. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has
         developed shock according to embodiment 19, the method comprising administering
        vasopressor to said subject, and wherein in addition the level of Pro--adrenomedullin
         or fragments thereof is determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM
         antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level
         of Pro--adrenomedullin or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold
         and/or wherein a treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody
        fragment is withheld and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-
         adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

10

    23. Method of treatment of shock in a subject that either runs into shock or that has

    developed shock according to embodiment 20 and 21, the method comprising

    administering anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment to said subject,

    wherein in addition the level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments thereof is

15  determined and wherein treatment with said anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM

    antibody fragment is initiated and/or continued when the level of Pro-adrenomedullin

    or fragments thereof in said sample is above a certain threshold and/or wherein a

    treatment with an anti-ADM antibody or anti-ADM antibody fragment is withheld

    and/ or terminated if the said determined level of Pro-adrenomedullin or fragments

20  thereof is below said predetermined threshold.

    24. A method for prognosing an outcome and/or the risk of an adverse event in a subject
        that has developed refractory shock, wherein said method is comprising the steps:

25  0 determining the level of DPP3 in a sample of bodily fluid of said subject;

    0 comparing said level of determined DPP3 to a predetermined threshold,

    0 correlating said level of DPP3 with said risk of an adverse event in said

    subject, wherein an elevated level above a certain threshold is predictive for an

    enhanced risk of said adverse events or,

30  o correlating said level of DPP3 with success of a therapy or intervention in said

    subject, wherein a level below a certain threshold is predictive for a success of

    therapy or intervention.

35
                                                                    72

       EXAMPLES

        Example 1 -- Methods for the measurement of DPP 3 protein and DPP3 activity

       Generation of antibodies and determination DPP3 binding ability: Several murine antibodies
       were produced and screened by their ability of binding human DPP3 in a specific binding
       assay (see Table 1).

       Peptides/ coniugates for immunization:

       DPP3 peptides for immunization were synthesized, see Table 1, (JPT Technologies, Berlin,
10 Germany) with an additional N--terminal cystein (if no cystein is present within the selected

       DPP3-sequence) residue for conjugation of the peptides to Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA).
       The peptides were covalently linked to BSA by using Sulfolink-coupling gel (Perbio--science,
       Bonn, Germany). The coupling procedure was performed according to the manual of Perbio.
       Recombinant GST-hDPP3 was produced by USBio (United States Biological, Salem, MA,
15 USA).

       Immunization of mice, immune cell fusion and screening:

       Balb/c mice were intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected with 84 pg GST-hDPP3 or 100 pg
       DPP3-peptide-BSA-conjugates at day 0 (emulsified in TiterMaX Gold Adjuvant), 84 pg or
       100 pg at day 14 (emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant) and 42 pg or 50 pg at day 21
20 and 28 (in incomplete Freund's adjuvant). At day 49 the animal received an intravenous (i.V.)
       injection of 42 pg GST-hDPP3 or 50 pg DPP3-peptide-BSA-conjugates dissolved in saline.
       Three days later the mice were sacrificed and the immune cell fusion was performed.

       Splenocytes from the immunized mice and cells of the myeloma cell line SP2/0 were fused
       with 1 ml 50% polyethylene glycol for 30 s at 37°C. After washing, the cells were seeded in
25 96-well cell culture plates. Hybrid clones were selected by growing in HAT medium [RPMI
       1640 culture medium supplemented with 20% fetal calf serum and HAT-Supplement]. After
       one week, the HAT medium was replaced with HT Medium for three passages followed by
       returning to the normal cell culture medium.

       The cell culture supernatants were primarily screened for recombinant DPP3 binding IgG
30 antibodies two weeks after filSiOI`l. Therefore, recombinant GST-tagged hDPP3

       (USBiologicals, Salem, USA) was immobilized in 96-well plates (100 ng/ well) and incubated
       with 50 pl cell culture supernatant per well for 2 hours at room temperature. After washing of
                                                                    73

       the plate, 50 pl / well POD-rabbit anti mouse IgG was added and incubated for 1 h at RT.
       After a next washing step, 50 p1 of a chromogen solution (3,7 mM o-phenylendiamine in
       citrate/ hydrogen phosphate buffer, 0.012% H202) were added to each well, incubated for 15
       minutes at RT and the chromogenic reaction stopped by the addition of 50 p1 4N sulfuric acid.
       Absorption was detected at 490 mm.

       The positive tested microcultures were transferred into 24-well plates for propagation. After
       retesting the selected cultures were cloned and re-cloned using the limiting-dilution technique
       and the isotypes were determined.

       Mouse monoclonal antibody production

10 Antibodies raised against GST-tagged human DPP3 or DPP3-peptides were produced Via
       standard antibody production methods (Marx el al. 1997) and purified Via Protein A. The
       antibody purities were 2 90% based on SDS gel electrophoresis analysis.

       Characterization of antibodies -- binding to hDPP3 and/ or immunization peptide

       To analyze the capability of DPP3/ immunization peptide binding by the different antibodies
15 and antibody clones a binding assay was performed:

              a) Solidphase

       Recombinant GST-tagged hDPP3 (SEQ ID NO. 1) or a DPP3 peptide (immunization peptide,
       SEQ ID NO. 2) was immobilized onto a high binding microtiter plate surface (96-We11
       polystyrene microplates, Greiner Bio-One international AG, Austria, 1 ug/well in coupling
20 buffer [50 mM Tris, 100 mM NaCl, pH7,8], 1h at RT). After blocking with 5% bovine serum
       albumin, the microplates were vacuum dried.

               b) Labellingprocedure (Tracer)

       100 pg (100 p1) of the different antiDPP3 antibodies (detection antibody, 1 mg/ ml in PBS,
       pH 7.4) were mixed with 10 p1 acridinium NHS-ester (1 mg/ml in acetonitrile, InVent GmbH,
25 Germany; EP 0 353 971) and incubated for 30 min at room temperature. Labelled antiDPP3
       antibody was purified by gel-filtration HPLC on Shodex Protein 5 1.1111 KW-803 (Showa
       Denko, Japan). The purified labeled antibody was diluted in assay buffer (50 mmol/l
       potassium phosphate, 100 mmol/l NaCl, 10 mmol/l Nag-EDTA, 5 g/l bovine serum albumin,
       1 g/l murine IgG, 1 g/l bovine IgG, 50 pmol/l amastatin, 100 pmol/l leupeptin, pH 7.4). The
30 final concentration was approx. 5-7*106 relative light units (RLU) of labelled compound
                                                                    74

       (approx. 20 ng labeled antibody) per 200 pl. acridinium ester chemiluminescence was
       measured by using a Centro LB 960 luminometer (Berthold Technologies GmbH & Co. KG).

               0) hDPP3 binding assay

       The plates were filled with 200 pl of labeled and diluted detection antibody (tracer) and
       incubated for 2-4 h at 2-8 oC. Unbound tracer was removed by washing 4 times with 350 pl
       washing solution (20 mM PBS, pH 7.4, 0.1 % Triton X-lOO). Well-bound chemiluminescence
       was measured by using the Centro LB 960 luminometer (Berthold Technologies GmbH & Co.
       KG).

        Characterization of antibodies -- hDPP3-inhibition analysis

10 To analyze the capability of DPP3 inhibition by the different antibodies and antibody clones a
       DPP3 activity assay with known procedure (Jones et al., 1982) was performed. Recombinant
       GST-tagged hDPP3 was diluted in assay buffer (25 ng/ ml GST-DPP3 in 50 mM Tris-HCl,
       pH7,5 and 100 pM ZflClz) and 200 pl of this solution incubated with 10 pg of the respective
       antibody at room temperature. After 1 hour of pre-incubation, fluorogenic substrate Arg-Arg-

15 BNA (20 pl, 2mM) was added to the solution and the generation of free BNA over time was
       monitored using the Twinkle LB 970 microplate fluorometer (Berthold Technologies GmbH
       & Co. KG) at 37 oC. Fluorescence of BNA is detected by exciting at 340 nm and measuring
       emission at 410 nm. Slopes (in RFU/ min) of increasing fluorescence of the different samples
       are calculated. The slope of GST-hDPP3 with buffer control is appointed as 100 % activity.

20 The inhibitory ability of a possible capture-binder is defined as the decrease of GST-hDPP3
       activity by incubation with said capture-binder in percent.

       The following table represents a selection of obtained antibodies and their binding rate in
       Relative Light Units (RLU) as well as their relative inhibitory ability (%; table 1). The
       monoclonal antibodies raised against the below depicted DPP3 regions, were selected by their
25 ability to bind recombinant DPP3 and/ or immunization peptide, as well as by their inhibitory
       potential.

       All antibodies raised against the GST-tagged, filll length form of recombinant hDPP3 show a
       strong binding to immobilized GST-tagged hDPP3. Also antibodies raised against the SEQ ID
       NO.: 2 peptide bind to GST-hDPP3. The SEQ ID NO.: 2 antibodies also strongly bind to the
30 immunization peptide.
                                   75

                                       2552 3.053.621 0"  65%

SEQ ID GST tagged recombinant FL-      2553 3777985 0     35%

N041 hDPP3                         L737 2554 1.733.815 0  30%

                                       2555 3.805.363 0   25%

                                       1963 141.822 2.163.038 60%

                                       1964 100.802 2.041.928 60%

                                       1965 99.493 1.986.794 70%

:13) 211) CETVINPETGEQIQSWYRSGE :33" 1966 118.097 1.990.702 65%

                                       1967 113.736 1.909.954 70%

                                       1968 105.696 2.017.731 65%

                                       1969 82.558 2.224.025 70%

Table 1: list of antibodies raised against full-length or sequences of hDPP3 and their ability to
bind hDPP3 (SEQ ID NO.: 1) or immunization peptide (SEQ ID NO.: 2) in RLU, as well as
the maximum inhibition of recombinant GST-hDPP3.

The development of a luminescence immunoassay for the quantification of DPP3 protein
concentrations (DPP3-LIA) as well as an enzyme capture activity assay for the quantification
of DPP3 activity (DPP3-ECA) have been described recently (Rehfeld el al. 2018. JALM in
Qress), which is incorporated here in its entirety by reference.

10 Example 2 - DPP3 for prognosis of short-term mortalitv

      DPP3 concentration in plasma of patients with sepsis/ septic shock and cardiogenic shock was
       determined and related to the short term-mortality of the patients.
       StudV Cohort -- Sepsis/Septic Shock
15 In 574 plasma samples from patients of the Adrenomedullin and Outcome in Severe Sepsis
       and Septic Shock (AdrenOSS) study DPP3 was measured. AdrenOSS is a prospective,
       observational, multinational study including 583 patients admitted to the intensive care unit
                                                                    76

       with sepsis or septic shock (Hollinger el al., 2018). 292 patients were diagnosed with septic
       shock.

        StudV Cohort -- Cardiogenic Shock

       Plasma samples from 108 patients that were diagnosed with cardiogenic shock were screened
       for DPP3. Blood was drawn within 6 h from detection of cardiogenic shock. Mortality was
       followed for 7 days.

       hDPP3 immunoassay:

       An immunoassay (LIA) or an activity assays (ECA) detecting the amount of human DPP3
10 (LIA) or the activity of human DPP3 (ECA), respectively, was used for determining the DPP3

       level in patient plasma. Antibody immobilization, labelling and incubation were performed as
       described in Rehfeld et a1. (RehZeld er al. 2018).

     M

15 Short-term patients' survival in sepsis patients was related to the DPP3 plasma concentration
       at admission. Patients with DPP3 plasma concentration above 40.5 ng/mL (3rd Quartile) had
       an increased mortality risk compared to patients with DPP3 plasma concentrations below this
       threshold (Figure 1A). Applying this cut-off to the subcohort of septic shock patients,
       revealed an even more pronounced risk for short-torm mortality in relation to high DPP3

20 plasma concentrations (Figure 1B). When the same cut-off is applied to patients with
       cardiogenic shock, also an increased risk for short-term mortality within 7 days is observed in
       patients with high DPP3 (Figure 1C).

        Example 3 - Purification of human native DPP3

25

       Human erythrocyte lysate was applied on a total of 100 m1 of Sepahrose 4B resin (Sigma-
       Aldrich) and the flow through was collected. The resin was washed with a total of 370 mL
       PBS buffer, pH 7.4 and the wash fraction was combined with the collected flow through,
       resulting in a total volume of 2370 mL.

30 For the immuno-affinity purification step, 110 mg of monoclonal anti-hDPP3 mAb AK2552
       were coupled to 25.5 mL of UltraLink Hydrazide Resin (Thermo Fisher Scientific) according
       to the manufacturer's protocol (GlycoLink Immobilization Kit, Thermo Fisher Scientific).
       The coupling efficiency was 98%, determined by quantification of uncoupled antibody Via
                             77

      Bradford-technique. The resin-antibody conjugate was equilibrated with 10 bed volumes of
      wash-binding buffer (PBS, 0.1% TritonX-100, pH 74), combined with 2370 mL of cleared
       red blood cell lysate and incubated at 4°C under continuous stirring for 2h. Consequently,
       100 mL of the incubation mixture was spread on ten 15 mL polypropylene columns and the
       flow-through was collected by centrifugation at 1000xg for 30 seconds. This step was
       repeated several times resulting in 2.5 mL of DPP3-loaded resin per column. Each column
      was washed 5 times with 10 mL of wash-binding buffer using the gravity-glow approach.
      DPP3 was eluted by placing each column in 15-mL falcon tube containing 2 mL of
       neutralization buffer (lM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0), followed by addition of 10 mL of elution buffer
10 (100 mM Glycine-HCl, 0.1% TritonX-100, pH 3.5) per column and immediate centrifugation
       for 30 seconds at 1000xg. The elution step was repeated 3 times in total resulting in 360 mL
       of combined eluates. The pH of the neutralized eluates was 8.0.

       The combined eluates were loaded on a 5 mL HiTrap Q-sephare HP column (GE Healthcare)
       equilibrated with IEX-buffer A1 (100 mM Glycine, 150 mM Tris, pH 8.0) using the sample
15 pump of the Akta Start system (GE Healthcare). After sample loading, the column was
       washed with five column volumes of IEX Buffer A2 (12 mM NaH2P04, pH 7.4) to remove
       unbound protein. Elution of DPP3 was achieved by applying a sodium chloride gradient over
       10 column volumes (50 mL) in a range of 0 -- l M NaCl using IEX-buffer B (12 mM
       NaH2P04,l M NaCl, pH 7.4). The eluates were collected in 2 mL fractions. Buffers used for
20 ion exchange chromatography were sterile filtered using a 0.22 11M bottle-top filter.

A purification table with the respective yields and activities of each purification step is given
in table 2. Figure 2 shows an SDS-PAGE on a gradient gel (4-20%) of native hDPP3 purified
from human erythrocyte lysate.

Table 2: Purification of DPP 3 from human erythrocytes

Step  DPP3  Total     Total      Yieldd) in Specific Purification

      amount in protein in activity in %                activity in factorfi

      % (LIA)a) mgb)  pmol/min                          U/rnge)

                      (ECA)C)

Lysate 100  204160    55         100                    0.00027 -

IAP   80.6  71.2      46.1       84                     0.65     2407

IEX   75    6.6       38.7       70                     5.9      21852

25 5" Relative DPP3 amount was determined in all fractions using the DPP3-LIA assay. Amount of DPP3
       in starting material was set to 100% and remaining DPP3 amount in purification fractions was
       correlated to the starting material.
                                                             78

b) Total protein amount was determined using the method of Lowry modified by Peterson (Peterson
1977. Analytical Biochemistry 35 6:346--35 m.
c) Total Argz-BNA hydrolyzing activity in pmol of substrate converted per minute was determined
using the DPP3-ECA, calibrated Via B-naphtylamine (0,05-100 pM).
d) Purification yield was calculated form total Argz-BNA hydrolyzing activity. ArgZ-BNA hydrolyzing
activity in starting material was set to 100%.
6) Specific activity is defined as pmol of substrate converted per minute and mg of total protein.
fl The purification factor is the quotient of specific activities after and before each purification step.

10 Example 4 - Effect of native DPP3 in an animal model

       The effect of native hDPP3 injection in healthy mice was studied by monitoring the
       shortening fraction and renal resistive index.

      Wild type Black 6 mice (8-12 weeks, group size refer to table 3) were acclimated during 2
15 weeks and a baseline echocardiography was done. The mice were randomly allocated to one

       of the two groups and, subsequently, native DPP3 protein or PBS were injected intravenously
      Via a retro--orbital injection with a dose of 600 pg/kg for DPP3 protein.

       After DPP3 or PBS injection, cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography (Gao el al.
20 2011) and renal function assessed by renal resistive index (Lubas er al., 2014, Dewille er a1,

       2012) at 15, 60 and 120 minutes (Figure 3).

Group     Number of Animals Treatment

WT + PBS  3                         PBS

WT+DPP3   4                         Native DPP3

Table 3: list of experiment groups

     M

       The mice treated with native DPP3 protein show significantly reduced shortening fraction
25 compared to the the control group injected with PBS (Fig 4A). The WT+DPP3 group also

       displays worsening renal function as observed by the renal resistive index increase (Figure

     4B).
                                                                    79

       Example 5 -- Development of Procizumab

       Antibodies raised against SEQ ID NO. 2 were characterized in more detail (epitope mapping,
       binding affinities, specificity, inhibitory potential). Here the results for clone 1967 of SEQ ID
       NO.: 2 (AK1967, "Procizumab") are shown as an example.

       Determination of AK1967 epitope on DPP3:

       For epitope mapping of AK1967 a number of N-- or C-terrninally biotinylated peptides were
       synthesized (PE GmbH, Hennigsdorf, Germany). These peptides include the sequence of the
       full immunization peptide (SEQ ID No. 2) or fragments thereof, with stepwise removal of one
10 amino acid from either C- or N--terminus (see table 5 for a complete list of peptides).

       High binding 96 well plates were coated with 2 pg AVidin per well (Greiner Bio-One
       international AG, Austria) in coupling buffer (500 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.8, 100 mM NaCl).
       Afterwards plates were washed and filled with specific solutions of biotinylated peptides
       (10 ng/ well, buffer -- lXPBS with 0.5% BSA). Anti-DPP3 antibody AK1967 was labelled
15 with a chemiluminescence label according to Example 1.

       The plates were filled with 200 pl of labeled and diluted detection antibody (tracer) and
       incubated for 4 h at room temperature. Unbound tracer was removed by washing 4 times with
       350 pl washing solution (20 mM PBS, pH 7.4, 0.1 % Triton X-lOO). Well-bound
       chemiluminescence was measured by using the Centro LB 960 luminometer (Berthold
20 Technologies GmbH & Co. KG). Binding of AK1967 to the respective peptides is determined
       by evaluation of the relative light units (RLU). Any peptide that shows a significantly higher
       RLU signal than the unspecific binding of AK1967 is defined as AK1967 binder. The
       combinatorial analysis of binding and non-binding peptides reveals the specific DPP3 epitope
       ofAKl967.

25

       Determination of binding affinities using Octet:

       The experiment was performed using Octet Red96 (ForteBio). AK1967 was captured on
       kinetic grade anti-humanFc (AHC) biosensors. The loaded biosensors were then dipped into a
       dilution series of recombinant GST-tagged human DPP3 (100, 33.3, 11.1, 3.7 nM).
30 Association was observed for 120 seconds followed by 180 seconds of dissociation. The
       buffers used for the experiment are depicted in table 4. Kinetic analysis was performed using
       a 1:1 binding model and global fitting.
                                              80

    Buffer                 Composition

    Assay Buffer           PBS with 0.1% BSA, 0.02% Tween-21

    Regeneration Buffer    10 mM Glycine buffer (pH 1.7)

    Neutralization Buffer  PBS with 0.1% BSA, 0.02% Tween-21

Table 4: Buffers used for Octet measurements

       Western Blot analysis of Binding specificity of AK1967:

       Blood cells from human EDTA-blood were washed (3X in PB S), diluted in PBS and lysed by
       repeated freeze-thaw-cycles. The blood cell lysate had a total protein concentration of
       250 pg/ml, and a DPP3 concentration of 10 pg/ml. Dilutions of blood cell lysate (1:40, 1:80,
       1:160 and 1:320) and of purified recombinant human His-DPP3 (31.25-500 ng/ml) were
       subjected to SDS--PAGE and Western Blot. The blots were incubated in 1.) blocking buffer
       (1XPBS-T with 5% skim milk powder), 2.) primary antibody solution (AK1967 1:2.000 in
10 blocking buffer) and 3.) HRP labelled secondary antibody (goat anti mouse IgG, 1:1.000 in
       blocking buffer). Bound secondary antibody was detected using the Amersham ECL Western
       Blotting Detection Reagent and the Amersham Imager 600 UV (both from GE Healthcare).
       DPP3 inhibition assay:

       To analyze the capability of DPP3 inhibition by AK1967 a DPP3 activity assay with known
15 procedure (Jones el al. 1982) was performed as described in example 1. The inhibitory

       ability AK1967 is defined as the decrease of GST-hDPP3 activity by incubation with said
       antibody in percent. The resulting lowered DPP3 activities are shown in an inhibition curve in
       Figure 1C.

       Epitope mapping:

20 The analysis of peptides that AK1967 binds to and does not bind to revealed the DPP3
       sequence INPETG (SEQ ID No.: 3) as necessary epitope for AK1967 binding (see table 5).

?Bptide peptide sequence                                          fiféif;

#1  bio afnquetvinpetgeqiqswyrs                               gyes
                                                                  yes
#2  bio afnquetvinpetgeqiq                                        yes
                                                                  yes
#3  bio afnquetvinpetgeqi

#4  bio afnquetvinpetgeq
#5   bio  f quetVInpetge                                       yes
                                                               yes
#6   bio  f quetv1npetg                                        n0
                                                               n0
#7   bio  f quetV1npet                                         no
                                                               no
#8   bio  f quetV1npe                                          no
                                                               no
#9   bio  f quetV1np                                           no
                                                               yes 1
#10 bio   f quetV1n                                            yes
                                                               yes
#11                   etgeq'q                          wykbio  yes
                                                       wykbio
#12                  petgeq'q                          wykbio
                                                       wykbio
#13       npetgeq'q                                    wykbio
                                                       wykbio
#14       1npetgeq'q                                   wykbio

#15       Vinpetgeq'q

#16       tV1npetgeq'q

#17       etvinpetgeq'q

Table 5: Peptides used for Epitope mapping of AK1967;

       Binding affinity:

       AK1967 binds with an affinity of 22* 10'9 M to recombinant GST-hDPP3 (kinetic curves see
      Figure 5).

       Specificitv and inhibitorv potential:

       The only protein detected with AK1967 as primary antibody in lysate of blood cells was
      DPP3 at 80 kDa (Figure 6). The total protein concentration of the lysate was 250 ug/ml
      whereas the estimated DPP3 concentration is about 10 ug/ml. Even though there is 25 times
10 more unspecific protein in the lysate, AK1967 binds and detects specifically DPP3 and no
       other unspecific binding takes place.
       AK1967 inhibits 15 ng/ ml DPP3 in a specific DPP3 activity assay with an IC50 of about
       15 ng/ml (Figure 7).

       Chimerization/ Humanization:

15 The monoclonal antibody AK1967 ("Procizumab"), with the ability of inhibiting DPP3
       activity by 70 %, was chosen as possible therapeutic antibody and was also used as template
       for chimerization and humanization.
                                                                    82

       Humanization of murine antibodies may be conducted according to the following procedure:

       For humanization of an antibody of murine origin the antibody sequence is analyzed for the
       structural interaction of framework regions (FR) with the complementary determining regions
       (CDR) and the antigen. Based on structural modelling an appropriate FR of human origin is
       selected and the murine CDR sequences are transplanted into the human FR. Variations in the
       amino acid sequence of the CDRs or FRs may be introduced to regain structural interactions,
       which were abolished by the species switch for the FR sequences. This recovery of structural
       interactions may be achieved by random approach using phage display libraries or Via
       directed approach guided by molecular modeling (Almagro and Fransson, 2008.
10 Humanization ofcmtibodies. Front Biosci. 13:1619-33).

       With the above context, the variable region can be connected to any subclass of constant
       regions (IgG, IgM, IgE. IgA), or only scaffolds, Fab fragments, FV, Fab and F(ab)2. In
       example 6 and 7 below, the murine antibody variant with an IgG2a backbone was used. For
       chimerization and humanization a human IgGlK backbone was used.

15 For epitope binding, only the CDRs are of importance. The CDRs for the heavy chain and the
       light chain of the murine anti-DPP3 antibody (AK1967) are shown in SEQ ID No. 6, SEQ ID
       No. 7 and SEQ ID No. 8 for the heavy chain and SEQ ID No. 9, sequence KVS and SEQ ID
       No. 10 for the light chain, respectively. Sequencing of the anti-DPP3 antibody (AK1967)
       revealed an antibody heavy chain variable region (H chain) according to SEQ ID No.: 11 and

20 an antibody light chain variable region (L chain) according to SEQ ID No.: 12.

       Example 6 -- Effect of Procizumab in septic shock--induced heart failure

       In this experiment, the effect of Procizumab injection in sepsis-induced heart failure rats
25 (Rittirsch et a1. 2009) was studied by monitoring the shortening fraction.

        Cecal ligation puncture (CLP) model of septic shock:

       Male Wistar rats (2-3 months, 300 to 400 g, group size refers to table 6) from the Centre
       d'élevage JanVier (France) were allocated randomly to one of three groups. All animals were
       anesthetized using ketamine hydrochloride (90 mg/ kg) and xylazine (9 mg/ kg) intra-
30 peritoneally (i.p.). For induction of polymicrobial sepsis, CLP was performed using
       Rittirsch's protocol with minor modifications. A ventral midline incision (1.5 cm) was made
       to allow exteriorization of the cecum. The cecum is then ligated just below the ileocecal valve
                                                                   83

       and punctured once with an 18-gauge needle. The abdominal cavity is then closed in two
       layers, followed by fluid resuscitation (3 ml/ 100 g body of weight of saline injected
       subcutaneously) and returning the animal to its cage. Sham animals were subjected to surgery,
      without getting their cecum punctured. CLP animals were randomized between placebo and
      therapeutic antibody.

       Study design:

       The study flow is depicted in Figure 8. After CLP or sham surgery the animals were allowed
      to rest for 20 hours with free access to water and food. Afterwards they were anesthetized,
      tracheotomy done and arterial and venous line laid. At 24 hours after CLP surgery either
10 AK1967 or vehicle (saline) were administered with 5 mg/kg as a bolus injection followed by
       a 3h infusion with 7.5 mg/kg. As a safety measure, hemodynamics were monitored invasively
       and continuously from t = 0 till 3 h.

       At t=0 (baseline) all CLP animals are in septic shock and developed a decrease in heart
       function (low blood pressure, low shortening fraction). At this time point Procizumab or
15 vehicle (PBS) were injected (i.V.) and saline infusion was started. There were 1 control group
       and 2 CLP groups which are summarized in the table below (table 6). At the end of the
       experiment, the animals were euthanized, and organs harvested for subsequent analysis.

Group     Number of Animals CLP            Treatment
                                           PB S
Sham      7                           No   PB S
                                           PCZ
CLP-PB S  6                           Yes

CLP-PCZ   4                           Yes

Table 6: list of experimental groups

20 Invasive Blood Pressure:

       Hemodynamic variables were obtained using the AcqKnowledge system (BIOPAC Systems,
       Inc., USA). It provides a fully automated blood pressure analysis system. The catheter is
       connected to the BIOPAC system through a pressure sensor.

       For the procedure, rats were anesthetized (ketamine and xylazine). Animals were moved to
25 the heating pad for the desired body temperature to 37--37.5 oC. The temperature feedback

       probe was inserted into the rectum. The rats were placed on the operating table in a supine
       position. The trachea was opened and a catheter (16G) was inserted for an external ventilator
                                                                    84

       without to damage carotid arteries and vagus nerves. The arterial catheter was inserted into
       the right carotid artery. The carotid artery is separate from vagus before ligation. A central
       venous catheter was inserted through the left jugular vein allowing administration of PCZ or
       PBS.

       Following surgery, the animals were allowed to rest for the stable condition prior to
       hemodynamic measurements. Then baseline blood pressure (BP) were recorded. During the
       data collection, saline infusion Via arterial line was stopped.

       Echocardiography:

       Animals were anesthetized using ketamine hydrochloride. Chests were shaved and rats were
10 placed in decubitus position. For transthoracic echocardiographic (TTE) examination a

       commercial GE Healthcare Vivid 7 Ultra-sound System equipped with a high frequency (14-
       MHz) linear probe and 10-MHZ cardiac probe was used. All examinations were recorded
       digitally and stored for subsequent off--line analysis.

       Grey scale images were recorded at a depth of 2 cm. Two-dimensional examinations were
15 initiated in a parasternal long aXis View to measure the aortic annulus diameter and the

       pulmonary artery diameter. M-mode was also employed to measure left ventricular (LV)
       dimensions and assess fractional shortening (FS%). LVFS was calculated as LV end-diastolic
       diameter - LV end-systolic diameter / LV end-diastolic diameter and expressed in %. The
       time of end-diastole was therefore defined at the maximal diameter of the LV. Accordingly,
20 end-systole was defined as the minimal diameter in the same heart cycle. A11 parameters were
       measured manually. Three heart cycles were averaged for each measurement.

       From the same parasternal long aXis View, pulmonary artery flow was recorded using pulsed
       wave Doppler. Velocity time integral of pulmonary artery outflow was measured.

       From an apical five-chamber View, mitral flow was recorded using pulsed Doppler at the level
25 of the tip of the mitral valves.

       Results:
       The septic shock-induced heart failure rats treated with PBS (CLP+PBS) show reduced
       shortening fraction compared to the sham animals (Fig. 9A). The CLP+PBS group also
       displays high mortality rate (Fig. 9B). In contrast, application of Procizumab to sep-induced
30 heart failure rats improves shortening fraction (Fig. 9A) and drastically reduces the mortality
       rate (Fig. 9B).
                                                                   85

       Example 7 - Effect of Procizumab on heart and kidney function

       The effect of Procizumab in isoproterenol-induced heart failure in mice was studied by
       monitoring the shortening fraction and renal resistive index.

       Isoproterenol-induced cardiac stress in mice:

       Acute heart failure was induced in male mice at 3 months of age by two daily subcutaneous
       injections of 300 mg/kg of Isoproterenol, a non-selective B-adrenergic agonist
       (DL-Isoproterenol hydrochloride, Sigma Chemical Co) (ISO) for two days (Vergaro el a],
      M). ISO dilution was performed in NaCl 0.9%. ISO-treated mice were randomly assigned
10 to two groups (Table 7) and PBS or Procizumab (10 mg/kg) were injected intravenously after
      baseline echocardiography (Gao el al. 2011) and renal resistive index measurements (Lu_bas
       el al., 2014, Dewille el al, 2012) were performed at day 3 (Figure 10 A and B).
       Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography (Gao et a1., 2011) and by the renal
       resistive index (Lubas el al., 2014, Dewille el al, 2012) at 1 hour, 6 hours and 24 hours
15 (Figure 10 A and B). The group of mice that was injected with vehicle (PBS) instead of
       isoproterenol was subjected to no further pharmacological treatment and served as the control
       group (Table 7).

Group      Number of Animals Treatment

Sham+PB S  27  PB S

HF+PB S    15  PB S

HF+PCZ     2O  Procizumab (PCZ)

       Table 7: list of experimental groups

20

        Results:

       Application of Procizumab to isoproterenol-induced heart failure mice restores heart function
       within the first hour after administration (Fig. 11A). Kidney function of sick mice shows
       significant improvement at 6 hours post Procizumab injection and is comparable to the kidney
25 function of sham animals at 24 hours (Fig. 11B).
                                                                    86

        Example 8 - DPP3 indicates vasopressor need and response to vasopressor therapv

       DPP3 concentrations in plasma of septic shock patients were determined using a hDPP3
       immunoassay and related to the need for vasopressor therapy.

        StudV Cohort -- Septic Shock
       Plasma samples from 292 patients that were diagnosed with septic shock from the AdrenOSS
       (see example 2) study were screened for DPP3. Human DPP3 was measured as described in
       Example 1.

10 M

       Patients with an increased need to vasopressor administration for more than 5 days had high
       plasma concentrations of DPP3 (Figure 12A). In contrast, patients that responded to
       vasopressor administration and where vasopressor administration could be discontinued
       within the first 5 days, had significantly reduced plasma DPP3 concentrations (Figure 12B).
15 This indicates that development of refractory shock and thus an increased need of vasopressor
       administration due to a diminished response of this therapy, is related to high DPP3 plasma
       concentrations in patients with septic shock.
       Patients with vasopressor-resistant refractory septic shock (noradrenaline >O.5 ng/kg/min)
       show significantly higher plasma DPP3 concentrations than compared to patients that
20 required noradrenaline doses of < 0.5 pg/kg/min (p<0.001) (Figure 16A). Moreover, the
       DPP3 plasma concentration was strongly associated with mortality in patients with
       vasopressor-resistant refractory septic shock (Figure 16B).

       Example 9 -- DPP3 is related to refractorv shock

25 DPP3 concentrations in plasma of cardiogenic shock patients were determined using a hDPP3
       immunoassay and related to the development of refractory shock.

        StudV Cohort -- Cardiogenic Shock
       Plasma samples from 57 patients that were diagnosed with cardiogenic shock after acute
       myocardial infarction were screened for DPP3. Human DPP3 was measured as described in
30 Example 1.

        Results
                                                             87

Patients with a DPP3 plasma concentration above a certain threshold on admission (59.1
ng/ml; 3rd quartile) developed refractory shock to a higher extent (47%) than patients with
DPP3 plasma concentrations below 59.1 ng/ml (12%) (Figure 13).

       Example 10 -- DPP3 and bio--ADM indicate short-term mortality in shock

       DPP3 and bio-ADM concentrations in plasma of septic shock patients were determined using
       a hDPP3 and a bio-ADM immunoassay and related to the short term-mortality of the patients.

10 Study Cohort -- Septic Shock
       Plasma samples from 292 patients that were diagnosed with septic shock from the AdrenOSS
       study were screened for DPP3 and bio-ADM. Human DPP3 was measured as described in
       Example 1. Bio-ADM was measured as decribed in Weber et al. (Weber el al. 2017. JALM
       2(2): [-41.

15

     M

       Plasma concentrations of bio-ADM and DPP3 were measured in septic schock patients.
       Patients were grouped according to specific cut-offs determined to be the 3rd quartile of all
       measured plasma concentrations of the respective marker (Table 8). Equal numbers of
20 patients had either high DPP3 only or high bio-ADM only (15.4%), while a lesser extent
       showed elevated plasma concentrations in both, bio-ADM and DPP3 (9.6%).

bio-ADM 10w (< 213 pg/mL)   DPP3 10w (< 48.4 ng/ml)  DPP3 high (> 48.4 ng/ml)
bio-ADM high (> 213 pg/mL)
                            174 (59.6%)              45 (15.4%)
                            45 (15.4%)               28 (9.6%)

Table 8: Patient numbers with low/high DPP3 and low/high bio-ADM. Cut-offs were
assigned based on the Q3 (highest 25%) for both.

25 Mortality within the first 4 weeks after admission was related to the bio-ADM and DPP3
       concentration on admission. Patients with either only a high bio-ADM or only a high DPP3
       plasma concentration had a sub stantial increased risk to die within the first 4 weeks compared
       to patients that had a plasma concentration of either bio-ADM (Figure 14A) or either DPP3
                                                                    88

       (Figure 14B) below a certain threshold (3rd quartile). Survival in patients with high bio-ADM
       was better than survival in patients with high DPP3.

       When both markers, bio-ADM and DPP3, were combined, an even higher risk for short-term
       mortality was identified in comparison to the mortality that was related to an increase of one
       of both markers only (Figure 14C). Merely 28.6% of the patients with high bio-ADM and
       high-DPP3 plasma concentrations survived the first 4 weeks after admission.

        Example 11 -- DPP3 and bio-ADM DPP3 indicates vasopressor need and response to
        vasopressor therapy

10

       DPP3 and bio-ADM concentrations in plasma of septic shock patients were determined using
       a hDPP3 and a bio--ADM immunoassay and related to the need for vasopressor therapy.

        StudV Cohort -- Septic Shock
       In 292 plasma samples from patients that were diagnosed with septic shock from the
15 AdrenOSS study DPP3 and bio-ADM concentrations were measured. Human DPP3 was
       measured as described in Example 1. Bio--ADM was measured as decribed in Weber et al.
        (Weber el al. 2017. JALM2(2).` 1-4).

     M

20 Plasma concentrations of bio-ADM and DPP3 were measured in septic schock patients.
       Patients were grouped according to specific cut-offs determined as the 3rd quartile of all
       measured plasma concentrations of the respective marker in the septic shock cohort (low
       DPP3 < 48.4 ng/mL, low bio-ADM < 213 pg/mL; high bio-ADM Z 213 pg/mL; high DPP3 2
       48.4 ng/mL).

25 Patients with high DPP3, but low bio-ADM plasma concentrations had a higher need for
       consecutive vasopressor administration compared to patients with either low DPP3 + low bio-
       ADM or low DPP3 + high bio--ADM (Figure 15; Table 9). In contrast, patients that had low
       DPP3 and low bio-ADM plasma concentrations, or patients that had low DPP3, but high bio-
       ADM plasma concentrations on admission could be discontinued of vasopressor

30 administration earlier than patients with high DPP3 plasma concentrations on admission
       (Figure 15; Table 9). This indicates that vasopressor therapy in septic shock patients with high
       bio-ADM can be discontinued earlier due to a better therapeutic response compared to septic
                                     89

shock patients with high DPP3. These patients (high DPP3) need longer treatment with
vasopressors due to non-responsiveness.

Days with vasapressnr need DPP3 Low  DPP3 low  DPP3 high DPP3 high

   bioADMlow bioADM high bioADMlow bioADM high

        42

2  49                                    11    6   2

3  25                                    6     8   2

4  16                                    4     1   2

5  8                                     3     2   o

6  3                                     1     6   1

7  31                                    12    17  19

Table 9: Patients with vasopressor need grouped according to their DPP3 and bio-ADM
plasma concentration at admission. Cut-offs were assigned based on the Q3 (highest 25% of
determined values) for both; low DPP3 < 48.4 ng/mL, low bio-ADM < 213 pg/mL; high bio-
ADM Z 213 pg/mL; high DPP3 2 48.4 ng/mL; 7: 27 days on vasopressor or dead within 7
days.
                                                                    9O

       EXAMPLES OF SEOUENCES

     SEQ ID No. 1 -- hDPP3 aa 1--737
     MADTQYILPNDIGVSSLDCREAFRLLSPTERLYAYHLSRAAWYGGLAVLLQTSPEAP
     YIYALLSRLFRAQDPDQLRQHALAEGLTEEEYQAFLVYAAGVYSNMGNYKSFGDTK
     FVPNLPKEKLERVILGSEAAQQHPEEVRGLWQTCGELMF SLEPRLRHLGLGKEGITTY
     FSGNCTMEDAKLAQDFLDSQNLSAYNTRLFKEVDGEGKPYYEVRLASVLGSEPSLDS
     EVTSKLKSYEFRGSPFQVTRGDYAPILQKVVEQLEKAKAYAANSHQGQMLAQYIESF
     TQGSIEAHKRGSRFWIQDKGPIVESYIGFIESYRDPFGSRGEFEGFVAVVNKAMSAKFE
10 RLVASAEQLLKELPWPPTFEKDKFLTPDFTSLDVLTFAGSGIPAGINIPNYDDLRQTEG
     FKNVSLGNVLAVAYATQREKLTFLEEDDKDLYILWKGPSFDVQVGLHELLGHGSGK
     LFVQDEKGAFNFDQETVINPETGEQIQSWYRSGETWDSKFSTIASSYEECRAESVGLY
     LCLHPQVLEIFGFEGADAEDVIYVNWLNMVRAGLLALEFYTPEAFNWRQAHMQARF
     VILRVLLEAGEGLVTITPTTGSDGRPDARVRLDRSKIRSVGKPALERFLRRLQVLKSTG
15 DVAGGRALYEGYATVTDAPPECFLTLRDTVLLRKESRKLIVQPNTRLEGSDVQLLEY
     EASAAGLIRSF SERFPEDGPELEEILTQLATADARFWKGPSEAPSGQA

       SEQ ID No. 2 -- hDPP3 aa 474-493 (N-Cys) -- immunization peptide with additional N-
       terminal Cystein
20 CETVINPETGEQIQ SWYRSGE

       SEQ ID No. 3 -- hDPP3 aa 477-482 -- epitope of AK1967
       INPETG

25 SEQ ID No. 4 -- variable region of murine AK1967 in heavy chain
       QVTLKESGPGILQPSQTLSLTCSFSGF SLSTSGMSVGWIRQPSGKGLEWLAHIWWNDN
       KSYNPALKSRLTISRDTSNNQVFLKIASVVTADTGTYFCARNYSYDYWGQGTTLTVS
       S

30 SEQ ID No. 5 -- variable region of murine AK1967 in light chain
       DVVVTQTPLSLSVSLGDPASISCRS SRSLVHSIGSTYLHWYLQKPGQSPKLLIYKVSNR
       FSGVPDRFSGSGSGTDFTLKISRVEAEDLGVYFCSQSTHVPWTFGGGTKLEIK
                                                                    91

       SEQ ID No. 6 -- CDRl of murine AK1967 in heavy chain
       GFSLSTSGMS

       SEQ ID No. 7 -- CDRZ of murine AK1967 in heavy chain
       IWWNDNK

       SEQ ID No. 8 -- CDR 3 of murine AK1967 in heavy chain
       ARNYSYDY

10 SEQ ID No. 9 -- CDRl of murine AK1967 in light chain
       RSLVHSIGSTY

       CDRZ of murine AK1967 in light chain
       KVS

15

       SEQ ID No. 10 - CDR3 of murine AK1967 in light chain
       SQSTHVPWT

       SEQ ID No. 11 -- humanized AK1967 -- heavy chain sequence (IgGlK backbone)
20 MDPKGSLSWRILLFLSLAFELSYGQITLKESGPTLVKPTQTLTLTCTFSGF SLSTSGMS

       VGWIRQPPGKALEWLAHIWWNDNKSYNPALKSRLTITRDTSKNQVVLTMTNMDPV
       DTGTYYCARNYSYDYWGQGTLVTVSSASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVK
       DYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHK
       PSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVV
25 VDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKE
       YKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDI
       AVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALH
       NHYTQKSLSLSPG

30 SEQ ID No. 12 -- humanized AK1967 -- light chain sequence (IgGlK backbone)
       METDTLLLWVLLLWVPGSTGDIVMTQTPLSLSVTPGQPASISCKSSRSLVHSIGSTYLY
       WYLQKPGQ SPQLLIYKVSNRFSGVPDRFSGSGSGTDFTLKISRVEAEDVGVYYCSQST
       HVPWTFGGGTKVEIKRTVAAP SVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWK
                                                                    92

       VDNALQSGNSQESVTEQD SKDSTYSLSSTLTL SKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLSSPVT
       KSFNRGEC

       SEQ ID No. 13 -- Angiotensin II (synonyme: 5-isoleucine-angi0tensin II)
       DRVYIHPF

       SEQ ID No. 14 -- Angiotensin II analogue (S-valine-angiotensin II)
       DRVYVHPF

10 SEQ ID No. 15 -- Angiotensin II analogue (Asnl-Phe4)
       NRVFIHPF

       SEQ ID No. 16 -- Angiotensin II hexapeptide
       VYIHPF

15

       SEQ ID No. 17 -- Angiotensin II nonapeptide
       NRVYYVHPF

       SEQ ID No. 18 -- Angiotensin II analogue ([Asnl-Iles-Iles]-angi0tensin II)
20 NRVYIHPI

       SEQ ID No. 19 -- Angiotensin II analogue ([Asnl-Iles-Alas]-angi0tensin II)
       NRVYIHPA

25 SEQ ID No. 20 -- Angiotensin II analogue ([Asnl-diiodoTyr4-Ile5]-angi0tensin II
       NRVYIHPF

       SEQ ID No. 21 -- Angiotensin III
       RVYIHPF

30

       SEQ ID No. 22 -- Angiotensin III analogue (Val4-angi0tensin III)
       RVYVHPF
                                                                    93

       SEQ ID No. 23 - Angiotensin III analogue (Phe3-angi0tensin III)
       RVFIHPF

       SEQ ID No. 24 -- Angiotensin III analogue ([Ile4-Ala7]-angi0tensin III)
       RVYIHPA

       SEQ ID No. 25 -- Angiotensin III analogue (diiodoTyr3-Ile4]-angi0tensin III)
       RVYIHPF

10 SEQ ID No. 26 -- Angiotensin IV
       VYIHPF

       SEQ ID No. 27 -- Angiotensin IV analogue (Vals-angiotensin IV)
       VYVHPF

15

       SEQ ID No. 28 -- Angiotensin IV analogue (Phez-angiotensin IV)
       VFIHPF

       SEQ ID No. 29 - Angiotensin IV analogue ([Ile3-A1a6]-angi0tensin IV)
20 VYIHPA

       SEQ ID No. 30 - Angiotensin IV analogue ([diiodoTyrz-Iles-angiotensin IV)
       VYIHPF

25 SEQ ID No. 31 (proADM): 164 amino acids (22 -- 185 of preproADM)
       ARLDVASEF RKKWNKWALS RGKRELRMSS SYPTGLADVK AGPAQTLIRP
       QDMKGASRSP EDSSPDAARI RVKRYRQ SMN NFQGLRSFGC RFGTCTVQKL
       AHQIYQFTDK DKDNVAPRSK ISPQGYGRRR RRSLPEAGPG RTLVSSKPQA
       HGAPAPPSGS APHFL

30

       SEQ ID No. 32 (Proadrenomedullin N-20 terminal peptide, PAMP): amino acids 22 -- 41
       0f preproADM
       ARLDVASEF RKKWNKWALS R
                                                                    94

       SEQ ID No. 33 (Midregional proAdrenomedullin, MR--proADM): amino acids 45 -- 92 0f
       preproADM
       ELRMSS SYPTGLADVK AGPAQTLIRP QDMKGASRSP EDSSPDAARI RV

        SEQ ID No. 34 (mature Adrenomedullin (mature ADM); amidated ADM; bio-ADM;
       hADM): amino acids 95 -- 146 -CONH2
       YRQSMN NFQGLRSFGC RFGTCTVQKL AHQIYQFTDK DKDNVAPRSK ISPQGY -
       CONH2

10 SEQ ID No. 35 (Adrenomedullin 1-52-Gly (ADM 1-52-Gly)): amino acids 95 -- 147 of
       preproADM
       YRQ SMN NFQGLRSFGC RFGTCTVQKL AHQIYQFTDK DKDNVAPRSK ISPQGYG

       SEQ ID No. 36 (C-terminal proAdrenomedullin, CT-proADM): amino acids 148 -- 185
15 of preproADM

       RRR RRSLPEAGPG RTLVSSKPQA HGAPAPPSGS APHFL

       SEQ ID No. 37 (N-terminal part of mature ADM): amino acids 1-21 of mature ADM
       YRQSMNNFQGLRSFGCRFGTC

20

       SEQ ID No. 38 (CDRl heavy chain anti--ADM antibody)
       GYTF SRYW

       SEQ ID No. 39 (CDRZ heavy chain anti--ADM antibody)
25 ILPGSGST

       SEQ ID No. 40 (CDR3 heavy chain anti--ADM antibody)
       TEGYEYDGFDY

30 SEQ ID No. 41 (CDRl light chain anti-ADM antibody)
       QSIVYSNGNTY

       SEQ ID No. 42 (CDR3 light chain anti-ADM antibody)
       FQGSHIPYT
                                                                   95

       SEQ ID No. 43 (anti-ADM antibody (Adrecizumab) heavy chain)
       QVQLVQ S GAEVKKPGS SVKVSCKAS GYTF SRYWIEWVRQAPGQGLEWIGEILPGS GS
      INYNQKF QGRVTITAD T S T S TAYMEL S SLRSEDTAVYYCTEGYEYDGFDYWGQGTT
       VTVS SASTKGP SVFPLAP S SKST SGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTF
      PAVLQ S S GLYSL S SVVTVP S S SLGTQTYICNVNHKP SNTKVDKKVEPK S CDKTHTCPP
       CPAPELLGGP SVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVH
      NAKTKPREEQYNS TYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI SKAKG
       QPREPQVYTLPP SRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYP SDIAVEWE SNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
10 SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVF SC SVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSL SPGK

       SEQ ID NO: 44 (anti-ADM antibody (Adrecizumab) light chain)
      DVVLTQ SPLSLPVTLGQPASISCRS Sg QSIVYSNGNTYLEWYLQRPGQ SPRLLIYR_VSNR
      F SGVPDRF SGSGSGTDF TLKISRVEAEDVGVYYCFS QGSHIPYTF GGGTKLEIKRTVAA
15 PSVFIFPP SDEQLKSGTASVVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQSGNSQESVTEQD SK
      DSTYSLSSTLTL SKADYEKHKVYACEVTHQGLSSPVTKSFNRGEC
                                                                    96

       FIGURE DESCRIPTION

       Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier survival plots in relation to low (< 40.5 ng/mL) and high (2 40.5
       ng/mL) DPP3 concentrations. (A) 7-Day survival of patients with sepsis in relation to DPP3
       plasma concentration; (B) 7-Day survival of Patients with cardiogenic shock in relation to
       DPP3 plasma concentration; (C) 7-Day survival of patients with septic shock in relation to
       DPP3 plasma concentration.

       Figure 2: SDS-PAGE on a gradient gel (4-20%) of native hDPP3 purified from human
10 erythrocyte lysate. Molecular weight marker is indicated as arrows.

       Figure 3: Experimental design - Effect of native DPP3 in an animal model.

       Figure 4: (A) DPP3 injection causes shortening fraction reduction and therefore leads to
15 deteriorating heart filflCtiOI`l. (B) Decreased kidney function is also observed Via increased

       renal resistive index.

       Figure 5: Association- and dissociation curve of the AK1967-DPP3 binding analysis using
       Octet. AK1967 loaded biosensors were dipped into a dilution series of recombinant
20 GST-tagged human DPP3 (100, 33.3, 11.1, 3.7 nM) and association and dissociation
       monitored.

       Figure 6: Western Blot of dilutions of blood cell lysate and detection of DPP3 with AK1967
       as primary antibody.

25

       Figure 7: Inhibition curve of native DPP3 from blood cells with inhibitory antibody AK1967.
       Inhibition of DPP3 by a specific antibody is concentration dependent, with an IC50 at
       ~15 ng/ml when analyzed against 15 ng/ml DPP3.

30 Figure 8: Experimental setup -- Effect of Procizumab in sepsis-induced heart failure.

       Figure 9: Procizumab drastically improves shortening fraction (A) and mortality rate (B) in
       sepsis-induced heart failure rats.
                                                                    97

       Figure 10: Experimental design - Isoproterenol-induced cardiac stress in mice followed by
       Procizumab treatment (B) and control (A).

       Figure 11: Procizumab improved shortening fraction (A) and reduced the renal resistive
       index (B) within 1 hour and 6 hours after administration, respectively, in isoproterenol-
       induced heart failure mice.

       Figure 12: (A) Days with need of vasopressor therapy in septic shock patients in relation to
10 DPP3 plasma concentrations. 27 days on vasopressor or dead within 7 days; * p<0.05 in post

       hoc comparison VS. groups 1-4 (B) Need of vasopressor therapy in septic shock patients in
       relation to DPP3 plasma concentrations. Patients with vasopressor therapy for maximal 5 days
       (35), and patients with vasopressor therapy longer than 5 days or that died within 7 days were
       grouped together (>5).

15

       Figure 13: DPP3 is related to refractory shock. High DPP3 concentrations in plasma of
       cardiogenic shock patients are related with a higher risk to develop refractory cardiogenic
       shock compared to patients that have DPP3 plasma concentrations below a certain threshold.

20 Figure 14: Kaplan-Meier survival plots (A) 4-week survival of patients with septic shock in
       relation to bio-ADM plasma concentration; values are grouped in quartiles (B) 4-week
       survival of patients with septic shock in relation to DPP3 plasma concentration; values are
       grouped in quartiles (C) 4-week survival of patients with septic shock in relation to bio-ADM
       and DPP3 plasma concentration; Cut-offs were determined based on 3rd quartile of all

25 measured plasma concentrations of the respective marker: both low DPP3 < 48.4 ng/mL, bio-
       ADM < 213 pg/mL; bio-ADM high 2 213 pg/mL; DPP3 high 2 48.4 ng/mL.

       Figure 15: Patients with vasopressor need grouped according to their DPP3 and bio-ADM
       plasma concentration on admission. Proportions of patients receiving vasopressors for 1-7
30 days are shown in greyscale - lighter colors represent longer treatment duration. Cut-offs were
       assigned based on the Q3 (highest 25% of determined values) for both; low DPP3 < 48.4
       ng/mL, low bio-ADM < 213 pg/mL; high bio-ADM Z 213 pg/mL; high DPP3 2 48.4 ng/mL;
       7: 27 days on vasopressor or dead within 7 days.
                                                                98

    Figure 16: (A) Plasma DPP3 concentration in patients with septic refractory shock who are in
    need of the vasopressor noradrenalin below (n=186) and above (n=95) 0.5 pg/kg/min
    (p<0.001). (B) Kaplan-Meier survival plots (A) 4-week survival of patients with septic
    refractory shock in relation to DPP3 plasma concentration; values are grouped in quartiles.
    REFERENCES

    1. Hollenberg et al. Ann Intern Med 1999; 131:47--59.

                Reynolds HR; Hochman JS. Circulation 2008; 117 :686--697.

10

                Tarvasméiki et al. Eur JHearl Fail John Wiley & Sons; Ltd; 2018; 20:572--581.

    Thiele Et al. NEngl JMed 2012; 367: 1287--1296.

15  Champion S. Eur JHearl Fail 2018; 20: 197--198.

    Hochman JS. Circulation 2003; 107 :2998--3002.

                Shah et a1. Clin Res Cardiol 2018;107:287--303.

20

                Schmidt et al. Eur Heart J 2015;36:2246-- 2256.

    Muller et a1. Intensive Care Med 2016; 42:370--378.

25 10. Chen et a1. Cril Care 2016; 20:336.

    11. Harjola et al. Eur JHearl Fail John Wiley & Sons; Ltd; 2015; 17:501--509.

       12. Harjola et al. Eur JHearl Fail John Wiley & Sons; Ltd; 2018; 20: 1081--1099.

30

       13. Bakker et al. Am JSurg 1996; 171:221--226.

    14. Attané et a1. Acute Card Care 2012;14:20--26.
                                                                    99
       15. Zhang Z; Xu X. Crit Care Med 2014; 42:2118--2125.

       16. Allardet a1. JNeurochem 1987; 48:1553--1559.

       17. Prajapati SC; Chauhan SS. FEBSJ 2011; 278:3256--3276.

       18. Ocaranza MP; Jalil JE. Hyperlens (Dallas, Tex 1979) 2016; 68:552--554.

       19. Rehfeld L; J Appl Lab Med 2019 JALM 3 (6).'943-953.

10

       20. Deniau et al. Eur JHearl Fail 2020 Feb;22(2):290-299.

       21. Levy JAm Coll Cardiol 2018; 72:173--182.

15 22. Kohsaka et al. Arch Intern Med 2005; 165: 1643--1650.

       23. Hochmanet a1. NEngl JMed 1999; 341:625--634.

       24. Thiele et a1. NEnglJMed 2012; 367: 1287--1296.

20

       25. Thiele et a1. NEnglJMed 2017; 377:2419--2432.

       26. The TRIU1\/1PHInvestigators*; Alexander JH;et al. JAMA 2007; 297: 1657.

25 27. Reyentovich et al. Nat Rev Cardiol 2016; 13:481--492.

       28. Mebazaa et a1. Intensive Care Med 2018; 44:760--773.

       29. Bassi et a1. Cril Care Res Pract 2013; 2013:654708.

30

       30. Baran et a1. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv 2019; 94:29--37.
